[[!meta title="Why is the time wrong?"]]

When Tails starts, the system time zone is set to GMT (Greenwich Mean Time). This time zone
might be a few hours in the future if you are west of the United
Kingdom, or in the past if you are east of the UK. The minutes
should be accurate.

[[!img gmt.png link="no" alt="Time displayed with 'GMT' indication in top navigation bar"]]

We do this for anonymity reasons: if some application reveals your actual
time zone, it might help identifying who you are.

Having all Tails users set to the same time zone makes it more difficult to
distinguish you amongst all the other Tails users.

Displaying the time in your local time zone
===========================================

If connecting to Tor using a bridge fails and you have to [[set the clock and
time zone|doc/anonymous_internet/tor/troubleshoot]] of your computer, the time
is displayed in your time zone instead of in GMT.

[[!img local.png link="no" alt="Time displayed without 'GMT' indication in top navigation bar"]]

<div class="bug">

<p>Fixing the clock when Tails fails to connect to Tor is currently the only
way of changing the time zone of the time displayed in the top navigation
bar.</p>

<p>In the future, we want to make it possible to change this time zone
([[!tails_ticket 10819]]) from the desktop and store it in the Persistent
Storage ([[!tails_ticket 12094]]).</p>

</div>

Time used by applications
=========================

Even if the time is displayed in your local time zone in the top navigation
bar, the internal time used by all applications in Tails is still in GMT to
protect your anonymity.

For example, the sending time of emails in *Thunderbird* or messages in
*Pidgin* is always in GMT to avoid leaking your time zone to the people you write
to.
