[[!meta title="User interviews"]]

We are collecting here summaries and insights from interviews
with Tails users.

For privacy reasons, the name and organization of the interviewees were
changed, the interviews were translated and slightly rephrased, and the
interviewees reviewed the text before publication.

<hr/><a id="boak"></a>

BOAK, January 2023
------------------

BOAK is an anarchist organization who use Tails to organize direct action
against the Russian army during the war in Ukraine.

[[Read the interview with BOAK|interviews/boak]]

<hr/><a id="gabriela"></a>

Gabriela, November 2022
-----------------------

Gabriela is a feminist hacker who has been training low-income women from the
Bahia region on using Tails.

[[Read the interview with Gabriela|interviews/gabriela]]

<hr/><a id="araceli"></a>

Araceli, June 2022
------------------

Araceli is a sociologist from Mexico. She used Tails to research very sensitive
topics like migration, human trafficking, and drug trafficking.

[[Read the interview with Araceli|interviews/araceli]]

<hr/><a id="lucas"></a>

Lucas, May 2022
---------------

Lucas is a filmmaker from Mexico working on the topic of mass surveillance.
He's discovering Tails as a safe space for creativity.

[[Read the interview with Lucas|interviews/lucas]]

<hr/><a id="rafael"></a>

Rafael, May 2022
----------------

Rafael is an activist in Mexico City. He uses Tails to organize workshops about
digital security for grassroots organizations.

[[Read the interview with Rafael|interviews/rafael]]

<hr/><a id="daniel"></a>

Daniel, March 2022
------------------

Daniel used Tails to investigate pedocriminal forums on the Darknet and take
down 13.5 terabytes of photos and videos of child abuse.

[[Read the interview with Daniel|interviews/daniel]]

<hr/><a id="roberto"></a>

Roberto, October 2019
---------------------

Roberto is a journalist and works for an organization that does investigative
journalism. I'm in charge of being the first filter for the information that
arrives on *Leaks*, which is an alliance of news rooms across the country.

[[Read the interview with Roberto|interviews/roberto]]

<hr/><a id="bea"></a>

Bea, August 2018
----------------

Bea is from North America but lives in Latin America where she does
political work as a volunteer in a grassroots organization.

[[Read the interview with Bea|interviews/bea]]

<hr/><a id="claudia"></a>

Claudia and Felix, January 2018
-------------------------------

Claudia and Felix are reporters working in a journalists organization in
Latin America. They investigate and report on issues such as
human-rights violations, enforced disappearances, drug trafficking but
always with a focus on the social impacts.

[[Read the interview with Claudia and Felix|interviews/claudia_felix]]

<hr/><a id="joana"></a>

Joana and Orlando, January 2018
-------------------------------

Joana and Orlando are investigative journalists and human-rights
defenders in Latin America. They work in an organization that
investigates and reports on private companies in Latin America, fighting
for transparency and accountability and denouncing human-right
violations of these companies, especially towards local communities.

[[Read the interview with Joana and Orlando|interviews/joana_orlando]]

<hr/><a id="mathias"></a>

Mathias, December 2017
----------------------

Mathias is a 25 years old video technician living in the north of france. He is also a punk hardcore singer, and is involved in several struggles
against the capitalist world.

[[Read the interview with Mathias|interviews/mathias]]

<hr/><a id="daan"></a>

Daan, December 2017
-------------------

Daan is a 18 years old ICT (information and communications technology)
student and a security researcher. He lives in the Netherlands and
cares a lot about privacy.

[[Read the interview with Daan|interviews/daan]]

<hr/><a id="charles"></a>

Charles, December 2017
----------------------

Charles is 30 years old and lives in North America. He is a political
activist working on law reform at the state level. He cares about free
software and calls himself a "purist". He is part of an organization
that provides computers and cell phones with free software
(*libreboot*, *Replicant*) to people.

[[Read the interview with Charles|interviews/charles]]

<hr/><a id="miguel"></a>

Miguel, May 2017
----------------

Miguel is a 20 years old statistics student in Brazil. He is part of
a collective that works on online privacy and security.

[[Read the interview with Miguel|interviews/miguel]]

<hr/><a id="sophia"></a>

Sophia, May 2017
----------------

Sophia is 30 years old, lives in Brazil and has two jobs: she is
a teacher and a system administrator.

[[Read the interview with Sophia|interviews/sophia]]

<hr/><a id="isabella"></a>

Isabella, May 2017
------------------

Isabella is a 50 years old Debian user living in Brazil. She used to
be a journalist at a magazine that talked a lot about FOSS (among
other things), then got in touch with people working on privacy
enhancing technologies (PET) and switched jobs: she now works with
a collective that defends freedom and privacy online, learns about
privacy tools and does advocacy for them.

[[Read the interview with Isabella|interviews/isabella]]

<hr/><a id="bernardo"></a>

Bernardo, May 2017
------------------

Bernardo is a 37 years old public administration teacher and social
science researcher in Brazil. He studies the way social movements use
Internet communication tools. He discovered Tails after the Snowden
leaks, via a hackers collective and the homepage of the Tor website.

[[Read the interview with Bernardo|interviews/bernardo]]

<hr/><a id="pedro"></a>

Pedro, May 2017
---------------

Pedro is 23 years old and studies applied mathematics in college in
Brazil. He has been a Linux user since 11 years; Qubes OS is now his
main operating system.

[[Read the interview with Pedro|interviews/pedro]]

<hr/><a id="margarita"></a>

Margarita, March 2017
---------------------

Margarita is a digital security consultant in Latin America. She used to
develop autonomous communication infrastructures and is now focusing on
training human-right defenders and organizations in digital security.
She has been presenting Tails mostly to two different public:

[[Read the interview with Margarita|interviews/margarita]]

<hr/><a id="helen"></a>

Helen, March 2017
-----------------

Helen is a digital security trainer working in an organization defending
the right for free speech in North America and working with both large
news organizations and freelance journalists.

[[Read the interview with Helen|interviews/helen]]

<hr/><a id="ernesto"></a>

Ernesto, March 2017
-------------------

Ernesto is working in the social science department of a University in
Latin America where he does communication, web development, and video.
He is also active in a local hacklab where he has a community TV and
does video editing with free software.

[[Read the interview with Ernesto|interviews/Ernesto]]

<hr/><a id="ray"></a>

Ray, March 2017
---------------

Ray is a security consultant and trainer in Africa.

[[Read the interview with Ray|interviews/ray]]

<hr/><a id="adam"></a>

Adam, March 2017
----------------

Adam is an investigative journalist working in an organization raising
awareness around State surveillance and digital freedom in Western
Europe. He has been using lots of Tor in different environments for
years.

[[Read the interview with Adam|interviews/adam]]

<hr/><a id="alex"></a>

Alex, March 2017
----------------

Alex is a journalist working for a big news room in Western Europe.

[[Read the interview with Alex|interviews/alex]]

<hr/><a id="jeanne"></a>

Jeanne, February 2017
---------------------

Jeanne has been working as an independent journalist for 5-6 years in Western Europe. She
writes stories that she sells to many different newspapers. She is also
active in a not-for-profit resource center and coworking space for
independent journalists in her city where she advocates for privacy to
the local press. She runs Ubuntu on her PC and can handle it all-right
with some help from her geek friends.

[[Read the interview with Jeanne|interviews/jeanne]]
