[[!meta title="Recording usability testing"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

<a id="camera"></a>

Recording with a camera using <span class="application">Cheese</span>
=====================================================================

Recording the screen with an external camera has the following
advantages over recording with a screencast:

- Recording a whole session, even if the user restarts Tails.
- Saving the video directly to your computer and not relying on the
  computer used for the tests.

You can use a document camera. The [Ziggi-HD Plus by
IPEVO](https://www.ipevo.com/) works fine from Tails.

1. Move the <span class="guilabel">AF</span> switch of the camera to <span class="guilabel">C</span> to have continuous autofocus.

1. Install *Cheese*:

   <p class="pre command">apt install cheese ffmpegthumbnailer</p>

1. In *Cheese*, choose **[[!img lib/open-menu.png alt="Menu" class=symbolic link=no]]</span>&nbsp;▸
   Preferences** and adjust the video resolution to find a good trade-off
   between resolution and fluidity.

   On my ThinkPad X250, I use 1280 × 720.

1. Adjust the orientation of the camera to capture as much of the screen as
   possible while not obfuscating the light of sight of the participant.

<a id="screencast"></a>

Recording a screencast
======================

Recording the screen with a screencast has the following advantages over
recording with an external camera:

- Better image quality
- Lighter setup

Using <span class="application">Kazam</span>
--------------------------------------------

You can use [*Kazam*](http://recordmydesktop.sourceforge.net/) from Tails:

1. Install *Kazam*:

   <p class="pre command">apt install kazam</span>

1. Start *Kazam* and edit the *Kazam* preferences:

   - In the **General** tab:

     - Adjust the capture microphone

   - In the **Screencast** tag:

     - Lower the framerate to 10 to avoid data loss.

     - Change the file format to WEBM.

     - Enable **Automatic file saving**.

     <div class="bug">
     <p>The directory preferences is reset to <em>~/Videos</em> every time by <em>Kazam</em>.</p>
     </div>

### To autosave the recordings in the Persistent Storage

1. Create a *Persistent/Videos* directory.

1. Then, either:

   - Temporarily, mount the *Videos* directory on *Persistent/Videos*.

     To do so, execute the following command:

     <p class="pre command">sudo mount --bind ~/Persistent/Videos ~/Videos</p>

   - Permanently, map the *Videos* directory to *Persistent/Videos* in
     the configuration of your Persistent Storage.

     To do so, add the following line to your */live/persistence/TailsData_unlocked/persistence.conf*:

     <p class="pre">/home/amnesia/Videos        source=Persistent/Videos</p>

Using GNOME Shell
-----------------

Press <span class="keycap">Ctrl+Alt+Shift+R</span> in GNOME to start or stop
capturing a screencast.

The video is saved to <span class="filename">~/Videos/</span>.

<div class="bug">

<p>The screencast stops after 30 seconds. See [[!tails_ticket
12723]].</p>

<p>The screencast has no sound.</p>

</div>
