[[!meta title="Creating and using LUKS encrypted volumes"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

<h1 id="luks">Introduction to <span class="application">LUKS</span></h1>

<div class="tip">

<p>The simplest way to carry around the documents that you want to use
with Tails encrypted is to use the [[Persistent
Storage|persistent_storage]].</p>

</div>

You can create other encrypted volumes using
<span class="application">LUKS</span> to encrypt, for example, another
USB stick or an external hard disk.
<span class="application">LUKS</span> is the standard for disk
encryption in Linux.

  - <span class="application">GNOME Disks</span> allows you to
    create encrypted volumes.
  - The GNOME desktop allows you to open encrypted volumes.

<h2 id="comparison">Comparison between <span class="application">LUKS</span> and <span class="application">VeraCrypt</span></h2>

You can also open <span class="application">VeraCrypt</span> encrypted
volumes in Tails. <span class="application">VeraCrypt</span> is a disk
encryption tool for Windows, macOS, and Linux. [[See our documentation
about <span class="application">VeraCrypt</span>.|veracrypt]]

[[!inline pages="doc/encryption_and_privacy/luks_vs_veracrypt.inline" raw="yes" sort="age"]]

<h1 id="creating">Creating an encrypted partition</h1>

Choose **Applications**&nbsp;▸ **Utilities**&nbsp;▸ **Disks** to open *GNOME
Disks*.

<h2 id="identifying">Identifying your external storage device</h2>

<span class="application">Disks</span> lists all the current storage
devices on the left side of the screen.

  1. Plug in the external storage device that you want to use.

  1. A new device appears in the list of storage devices. Click on it:

     [[!img storage_devices_after.png link=no alt=""]]

  1. Check that the description of the device on the right side of the screen
  corresponds to your device: its brand, its size, etc.

<h2 id="formatting">Formatting the device</h2>

  1. Click on the [[!img lib/view-more.png alt="Drive Options" class="symbolic" link="no"]] button
     in the titlebar and choose **Format Disk…**
     to erase all the existing partitions on the device.

  1. In the <span class="guilabel">Format Disk</span> dialog:

     - If you want to securely erase all data on the device, choose to
       <span class="guilabel">Overwrite existing data with zeroes</span> in the
       <span class="guilabel">Erase</span> menu.

     - Choose <span class="guilabel">Compatible with all
       systems and devices (MBR/DOS)</span> in the <span class="guilabel">Partitioning</span>
       menu.

     Then click <span class="bold">Format…</span>.

  1. In the confirmation dialog, make sure that the device
     is correct. Click <span class="bold">Format</span> to confirm.

<h2 id="partition">Creating a new encrypted partition</h2>

Now the schema of the partitions in the middle of the screen shows an empty
device:

[[!img empty_device.png link=no alt="Free Space 123 GB"]]

  1. Click on the <span class="guimenu">[[!img lib/list-add.png alt="Create partition" class="symbolic" link="no"]]</span>
     button to create a new partition on the device.

  1. Configure the various settings of your new partition in the
  partition creation assistant:

     - In the <span class="guilabel">Create Partition</span> screen:

       - <span class="guilabel">Partition Size</span>: you can create a partition
         on the whole device or only on part of it.

         In the example below, we are creating a partition of 4.0 GB on a device of 8.1 GB.

     - In the <span class="guilabel">Format Volume</span> screen:

       - <span class="guilabel">Volume Name</span>: you can give a name to the partition.
         This name remains invisible until the partition is open but can help
         you to identify it during use.

       - <span class="guilabel">Erase</span>: you can choose to securely
         erase all data on the partition.

         <div class="caution">
         <p>Secure deletion does not work as expected on USB sticks and
         SSDs (Solid-State Drives). Choose instead to overwrite existing
         data on the whole device when [[formatting the
         device|encrypted_volumes#formatting]].</p>
         <p>See also our [[warning about secure deletion on USB sticks and
         SSDs|secure_deletion#usb_and_ssd]].</p>
         </div>

       - <span class="guilabel">Type</span>: choose
         <span class="guilabel">Internal disk for use with Linux systems
         only (Ext4)</span> and <span class="guilabel">Password protect
         volume (LUKS)</span>.

     - In the <span class="guilabel">Set Password</span> screen:

       - <span class="guilabel">Password</span>: type a passphrase for the
         encrypted partition and repeat it to confirm.

         <div class="tip">

         <p>We recommend choosing a long passphrase made of 5 to 7 random words.
         <a href="https://theintercept.com/2015/03/26/passphrases-can-memorize-attackers-cant-guess/">Learn
         about the maths behind memorizable and secure passphrases.</a></p>

         </div>

         <div class="caution">
         <p>It is impossible to recover your passphrase if you forget it!</p>

         <p>To help you remember your passphrase, you can write it on a piece of
         paper, store it in your wallet for a few days, and destroy it once
         you know it well.</p>
         </div>

       Then click <span class="bold">Create</span>.

  1. Creating the partition takes from a few seconds to a few minutes. After
     that, the new encrypted partition appears in the volumes on the device:

     [[!img encrypted_partition.png link="no" alt="Partition 1 4.0 GB LUKS / Filesystem 4.0 GB Ext4"]]

  1. If you want to create another partition in the free space on the
     device, click on the free space and then click on the
     <span class="guimenu">[[!img lib/list-add.png alt="Create partition" class="symbolic" link="no"]]</span>
     button again.

<h2 id="using">Using the new partition</h2>

You can open this new partition from the sidebar of the file browser with the
name you gave it.

After opening the partition with the file browser, you can also access it
from the <span class="guimenu">Places</span> menu.

<h1 id="opening">Opening an existing encrypted partition</h1>

When plugging in a device containing an encrypted partition, Tails does not open the partition
automatically but you can do so from the file browser.

1. Choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Places</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">Computer</span></span>
   to open the file browser.

1. Click on the encrypted partition that you want to open in the sidebar.

   [[!img nautilus_encrypted.png link="no" alt="File browser with '4.0 GB Encrypted' entry in the sidebar"]]

1. Enter the passphrase of the partition in the password prompt and
   click <span class="bold">Unlock</span>.

1. After opening the partition with the file browser, you can also access it
   from the <span class="guimenu">Places</span> menu.

1. To close the partition after you finished using it, click on the
   <span class="guimenu">[[!img lib/media-eject.png alt="Eject" class="symbolic" link="no"]]</span>
   button next to the partition in the sidebar of the file browser.

<h1 id="storing">Storing sensitive documents</h1>

Such encrypted volumes are not hidden. An attacker in possession of
the device can know that there is an encrypted volume on it. Take into consideration
that you can be forced or tricked to give out its passphrase.

<h1 id="os">Opening encrypted volumes from other operating systems</h1>

It is possible to
open such encrypted volumes from other operating systems. But, doing so might
compromise the security provided by Tails.

For example, image thumbnails might be created and saved by the other
operating system. Or, the contents of files might be indexed by the other
operating system.

<h1 id="changing">Changing the passphrase of an existing encrypted partition</h1>

To open <span class="application">GNOME Disks</span> choose
<span class="menuchoice">
  <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
  <span class="guisubmenu">Utilities</span>&nbsp;▸
  <span class="guimenuitem">Disks</span></span>.

1. Plug in the external storage device containing the encrypted partition that you
want to change the passphrase for.

1. The device appears in the list of storage devices. Click on it:

   [[!img storage_devices_after.png link=no alt=""]]

1. Check that the description of the device on the right side of the screen
corresponds to your device: its brand, its size, etc.

1. Click on the partition displaying a [[!img lib/network-wireless-encrypted.png alt="padlock" class="symbolic" link="no"]] at the bottom-right corner.

1. Click on the <span class="guimenu">
   [[!img lib/system-run.png alt="Additional partition options" class="symbolic" link="no"]]
   </span> button and choose <span class="guimenu">Change Passphrase…</span>
