[[!meta title="Encrypting text and files using GnuPG and Kleopatra"]]

<!-- Not linking to the handbook because it's so bad: https://docs.kde.org/stable5/en/kleopatra/kleopatra/ -->
<!-- Not more heading because of layout. -->

[*Kleopatra*](https://www.openpgp.org/software/kleopatra/) is a graphical
interface to [*GnuPG*](https://www.gnupg.org/), a tool to encrypt and
authenticate text and files using the OpenPGP standard.

<div class="note">

<p><i>Kleopatra</i> was added in Tails 5.0 (May 2022) to replace the <i>OpenPGP
Applet</i> and the <i>Password and Keys</i> utility, also known as
<i>Seahorse</i>.</p>

<p><i>Kleopatra</i> provides equivalent features in a single tool and is more
actively developed.</p>

</div>

With *Kleopatra* you can:

- Create new OpenPGP keys for yourself
- Manage your OpenPGP private keys and the public keys of others
- Encrypt and sign text with a public key
- Encrypt text with a passphrase
- Decrypt and verify text

<div class="next">

<p>The [[<i>Thunderbird</i>|anonymous_internet/thunderbird]] email client
allows you to work with OpenPGP encrypted emails. Consider using
<i>Thunderbird</i> instead of <i>Kleopatra</i> if you want to exchange encrypted emails.</p>

<p>The OpenPGP keys stored in <i>Thunderbird</i> are separate from the keys
stored in <i>GnuPG</i> and visible in <i>Kleopatra</i>.</p>

</div>

[[!toc]]

<div class="tip">

<p>To store your GnuPG keys and configuration across different working sessions,
you can turn on the [[GnuPG|doc/first_steps/persistence#gnupg]]
feature of the Persistent Storage.</p>

</div>

# Working with encrypted files

To encrypt a file:

1. Choose **Sign/Encrypt&hellip;** from the main window.

1. Select the file that you want to encrypt.

1. In the **Sign/Encrypt Files** dialog, either:

   - Specify which OpenPGP keys you want to encrypt the file to.

   - Choose **Encrypt with password**.

To decrypt a file:

1. Choose **Decrypt/Verify&hellip;** from the main window.

1. Select the file that you want to decrypt.

# Working with encrypted text

<div class="caution">

<p>It is unsafe to write confidential text in a web browser since JavaScript
attacks can access it from inside the browser. You should rather write and
encrypt your text directly in the notepad of <i>Kleopatra</i> and only paste
the encrypted text in your browser.</p>

</div>

To encrypt text:

1. Choose **Notepad** from the main window.

1. Type your text in the **Notepad** tab in the bottom pane.

1. In the **Recipients** tab, either:

   - Specify which OpenPGP keys you want to encrypt the text to.

   - Choose **Encrypt with password**.

To decrypt text:

1. Choose **Notepad** from the main window.

1. Paste the encrypted text in the **Notepad** tab in the bottom pane.

1. Choose **Decrypt/Verify Notepad**.

<div class="bug">

<p>When using <i>Kleopatra</i> to encrypt emails, non-ASCII characters (for
example non-Latin characters or characters with accents) might not display
correctly to the recipients of the email.</p>

<p>If you often encrypt emails, we recommend you set up OpenPGP in
[[<i>Thunderbird</i>|doc/anonymous_internet/thunderbird]] instead.</p>

</div>
