[[!meta title="Managing passwords using KeePassXC"]]

Using the [<span class="application">KeePassXC</span>](https://keepassxc.org/)
password manager you can:

  - Store many passwords in an encrypted database which is protected by
    a single passphrase of your choice.
  - Always use different and stronger passwords, since you only have to
    remember a single passphrase to unlock the entire database.
  - Generate very strong random passwords.

[[!toc]]

<a id="create"></a>

Creating and saving a password database
=======================================

Follow these steps to create a new password database and save it in the
Persistent Storage for use in future working sessions.

To learn how to create and configure the Persistent Storage, read the
[[documentation on the Persistent Storage|first_steps/persistence]].

0. When starting Tails, [[unlock the Persistent Storage|first_steps/persistence#use]].

0. In the [[Persistent Storage
   settings|first_steps/persistence#configure]], verify that the
   Personal Data
   feature is turned on.

   Otherwise, turn it on, restart Tails,
   and [[unlock the Persistent Storage|first_steps/persistence#use]].

0. To start <span class="application">KeePassXC</span>, choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
   <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guisubmenu">Accessories</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guimenuitem">KeePassXC</span></span>.

0. To create a new database, click <span class="guilabel">Create new database</span>.

0. Continue with the defaults settings in the configuration screens **General
   Database Information** and **Encryption Settings**.

0. The database is encrypted and protected by
   a passphrase. In the configuration screen **Database Credentials**:

   * Specify a passphrase of your choice in the **Enter password** text box.
   * Type the same passphrase again in the **Confirm password** text box.
   * Click **Done**.

0. Save the database as *Passwords.kdbx* in the *Persistent* folder.

<a id="restore"></a>

Restoring and unlocking the password database
=============================================

Follow these steps to unlock the password database saved in the
Persistent Storage from a previous working session.

0. When starting Tails, [[unlock the Persistent Storage|first_steps/persistence#use]].

0. To start <span class="application">KeePassXC</span>, choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
   <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guisubmenu">Accessories</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guimenuitem">KeePassXC</span></span>.

0. If you have a database named *Passwords.kdbx* in your *Persistent* folder,
   <span class="application">KeePassXC</span> automatically displays a dialog to
   unlock that database.

   Enter the passphrase for this database and click <span class="guilabel">OK</span>.

0. If you enter a wrong passphrase the following error message
   appears:

   <span class="guilabel">Error while reading the database: Invalid credentials
   were provided, please try again.</span>

Storing your *KeePassXC* settings in the Persistent Storage
===========================================================

To store your *KeePassXC* settings in the Persistent Storage,
in addition to the password database:

1. Turn on the [[Dotfiles|doc/first_steps/persistence#dotfiles]]
   feature of the Persistent Storage.

1. Restart Tails.

1. Unlock the Persistent Storage in the Welcome Screen.

1. Choose **Places**&nbsp;▸ **Dotfiles**.

1. Create the folder */live/persistence/TailsData_unlocked/dotfiles/.config/keepassxc/*.

1. Copy the file *~/.config/keepassxc/keepassxc.ini* to
   */live/persistence/TailsData_unlocked/dotfiles/.config/keepassxc/keepassxc.ini*.

<a id="user_guide"></a>

Additional documentation
========================

For more detailed instructions on how to use
<span class="application">KeePassXC</span>, refer to the
[<span class="application">KeePassXC</span> guide
of the Electronic Frontier Foundation](https://ssd.eff.org/en/module/how-use-keepassxc).
