[[!meta title="Securely deleting files and clean diskspace"]]

[[!toc levels=1]]

<h1 id="why">Why use secure deletion?</h1>

**Operating systems do not actually remove the contents of a file when it is
deleted**, even after emptying the trash or explicitly removing the file, from
the command line for example.

Instead, they simply remove the file's entry from the file system directory,
because this requires less work and is therefore faster. The contents of the
file—the actual data—remain on the storage medium. The data will remain there
until the operating system reuses the space for new data.

Likewise, reformatting, repartitioning or reimaging a system is not always
guaranteed to write to every area of the disk, though all will cause the disk to
appear empty or, in the case of reimaging, empty except for the files present in
the image, to most software.

Finally, even when the storage medium is overwritten, physical properties of the
medium might make it possible to recover the previous contents. In most cases
however, this recovery is not possible by just reading from the storage device
in the usual way, but requires using laboratory techniques such as disassembling
the device and directly accessing/reading from its components.

To learn more, see the Wikipedia article on
[[!wikipedia Data_erasure desc="data erasure"]].

<h1 id="usb_and_ssd">Warning about USB sticks and SSDs</h1>

<div class="caution">

<p>Secure deletion is not as reliable on USB sticks and SSDs (solid-state
drive) as it is on traditional hard disks.</p>

</div>

USB sticks and SSDs sometimes copy the same data to various memory cells to
extend the lifetime of the device. USB sticks and SSDs also have 10&ndash;20%
of spare memory cells for the same reason.

As a consequence, part of the data from a given file might still be written on
the device even after securely deleting it.

This data could be recovered using advanced data forensics techniques, for
example by professional data recovery services.

To mitigate this risk, you can:

- Encrypt the device before use, to make it hard to recover *any* data.

- Securely delete the entire device. Some old data might still be present in
  the spare memory cells.

- Physically destroy the device.

<h1 id="files">Securely deleting files</h1>

<div class="caution">

<p>Securely deleting files does not erase the potential backup copies of
the file (for example LibreOffice creates backup copies that allow
you to recover your work in case LibreOffice stops responding).</p>

</div>

  1. Open the <span class="application">Files</span> browser.

  1. Navigate to the folder containing the files that you want to delete.

  1. Select the files that you want to delete with the mouse.

  1. Right-click (on Mac, click with two fingers) on the files and choose <span class="guimenuitem">Wipe</span>.

  1. Confirm.

  1. The deletion will start. It can last from a few seconds to several minutes,
  according to the size of the files. Be patient…

<h1 id="disk_space">Securely cleaning available disk space</h1>

In order to clean up the contents of all files that were previously suppressed
but not securely deleted from a disk, it is also possible to securely clean all
the free space on the disk.

The disk or the folder can contain other files. Those files will not
be deleted during the operation.

  1. Open the <span class="application">Files</span> browser.

  1. Click on the disk that you want to clean in the left pane to
     navigate to the root of this disk.

  1. Click on the [[!img lib/open-menu.png alt="Menu" class="symbolic" link="no"]]
     button in the right corner of the title bar and choose
     **Show Hidden Files**.

  1. If you want to empty the trash, delete the <span class="filename">.Trash-1000</span> folder or
     similar.

  1. Right-click (on Mac, click with two fingers) in empty space in the right pane and choose <span
     class="guimenuitem">Wipe available diskspace</span>.

  1. Confirm.

  1. The cleaning starts. It can last from a few minutes to a few hours,
     according to the size of the available diskspace. Be patient…

     Note that a file with a name similar to <span
     class="filename">tmp.7JwHAyBvA9</span> is created in the
     folder. It is made as big as possible to use all the available diskspace and
     then securely deleted.

<h1 id="device">Securely erasing an entire device</h1>

1. Open the <span class="application">Disks</span> utility.

   All the current storage devices are listed in the left pane.

1. Plug in the USB stick or SSD that you want to securely delete.

1. A new device appears in the list of storage devices. Click on it:

   [[!img encrypted_volumes/storage_devices_after.png link="no" alt=""]]

1. Check that the description of the device on the right side of the screen
   corresponds to your device: its brand, its size, etc.

1. Click on the <span class="guimenu">[[!img lib/open-menu.png alt="Menu" class="symbolic" link="no"]]</span> button
   in the titlebar and choose <span class="guilabel">Format Disk…</span>
   to erase all the existing partitions on the device.

1. In the <span class="guilabel">Format Disk</span> dialog:

   - Choose to
     <span class="guilabel">Overwrite existing data with zeroes</span> in the
     <span class="guilabel">Erase</span> menu.

   - Choose <span class="guilabel">Compatible with all
     systems and devices (MBR/DOS)</span> in the <span class="guilabel">Partitioning</span>
     menu.

1. Click <span class="bold">Format…</span>.

1. In the confirmation dialog, make sure that the device
   is correct. Click <span class="bold">Format</span> to confirm.
