[[!meta title="Known issues with graphics cards"]]

- For other hardware compatibility issues, refer to our [[known issues|support/known_issues]].

[[!toc levels=2]]

<h1 id="error-starting-gdm">Error starting GDM</h1>

This section applies if you see the following error message when
starting Tails:

<p class="pre">
Error starting GDM with your graphics card: <i>name of your graphics
card [id] (rev number)</i>. Please take note of this error and visit
https://tails.boum.org/gdm for troubleshooting.
</p>

[[!img error.png link="no" alt=""]]

1. Identify the name, ID, and revision number (if any) of your graphics card.

   For example, if your error message starts with:

   <p class="pre">Error starting GDM with your graphics card:
   NVIDIA Corporation [10de:0a6c] GT218M [NVS 3100M] (rev a2)</p>

   - The name is *NVIDIA Corporation GT218M [NVS 3100M]*.
   - The ID is *[10de:0a6c]*. The ID is unique to the model of your
     graphics card, it is not unique to your computer.
   - The revision number is *a2*. Your graphics card might have no
     revision number.

1. Check if your graphics card is listed below. For example, you can search for its
   name or ID on this page.

   - If your graphics card is listed, check if a workaround is
     documented to make it work on Tails.

     If the workaround doesn't work, we are sorry that Tails does not work well
     on this computer. Our best hope is that a future update of Linux drivers will
     solve the problem.

   - If your graphics card is not listed, please [[contact our support
     team by email|support/talk]].

     Mention in your email:

     - The version of Tails that you are trying to start.
     - The name, ID, and revision number (if any) of your graphics card.

     <div class="tip">

     <p>You can send us a photo of the error message as it appears on
     your screen.</p>

     </div>

1. If your problem gets fixed in a future version of Tails, please let us
   know so we can update this page.

<!--

Name and ID in /usr/share/misc/pci.ids
======================================

The correspondence between the name and ID is established in
/usr/share/misc/pci.ids.

For example:

	8086  Intel Corporation
	        0007  82379AB
	        [...]
	        0046  Core Processor Integrated Graphics Controller

Corresponds to:

	Intel Corporation Core Processor Integrated Graphics Controller [8086:0046]

Template for new section
========================

<a id="$ANCHOR"></a>

$FAMILY_NAME
------------

$LT!--
Issues: #XXXXX #XXXXX
--$GT

### Affected graphics cards

<table>
<tr><th>Name</th><th>ID</th><th>Revision number</th></tr>
<tr><td>$VENDOR $DEVICE</td><td>[$VENDOR_ID:$PRODUCT_ID]</td><td>(rev $REVISION_NUMBER)</td></tr>
</table>

### Workaround

$WORKAROUND_IF_ANY

-->

<h2 id="multiple">Multiple graphics cards</h2>

If the error message lists multiple graphics cards:

  - If possible, plug the monitor into the motherboard's Intel graphics card, as
    opposed to the external Nvidia or AMD/ATI graphics card.

  - Explicitly select one of the two graphics adapters in the BIOS
    instead of letting the system choose one automatically. If this does
    not solve the problem, try selecting the other graphics adapter.

  - Start Tails using the `nouveau.modeset=0` [[boot option|doc/advanced_topics/boot_options]].
    This will force the system to use your other graphics cards,
    instead of the Nvidia one.

<h2 id="radeon-hd">AMD Radeon HD</h2>

<!--
Issues: #11095 #12482
-->

### Affected graphics cards

Any graphics cards in the Radeon HD family might be affected.

### Workaround

If the computer has another, integrated graphics card, try configuring
the computer to use that one instead of the AMD graphics card.
For example, using the following [[boot
option|doc/advanced_topics/boot_options]]:

* `modprobe.blacklist=amdgpu`
* `modprobe.blacklist=radeon`

<h2 id="radeon-r9">AMD Radeon R9</h2>

<!--
Issues: #12218 #11850
-->

### Affected graphics cards

<table>
<tr><th>Name</th><th>ID</th><th>Revision number</th></tr>
<tr><td>Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD/ATI] Hawaii PRO [Radeon R9 290/390]</td><td>[1002:67b1]</td><td></td></tr>
</table>

### Workaround

Adding `radeon.dpm=0` to the
[[boot options|doc/advanced_topics/boot_options]]
might fix the issue.

<h2 id="amd-radeon-rx-400">AMD Radeon RX 400 family</h2>

### Affected graphics cards

<table>
<tr><th>Name</th><th>ID</th><th>Revision number</th></tr>
<tr><td>Radeon RX 480</td><td></td><td></td></tr>
</table>

### Workaround

Adding `amdgpu.dc=0` to the
[[boot options|doc/advanced_topics/boot_options]]
might fix the issue.

### Other possibly affected graphics cards

Other graphics cards in the [[!wikipedia Radeon_RX_400_series]] might be affected.

<h2 id="amd-vega">AMD Radeon RX Vega family</h2>

### Affected graphics cards

Graphics cards in the [[!wikipedia Radeon_RX_Vega_series]],
as found in some AMD Ryzen processors, might be affected.

### Workaround

Try starting Tails using the following [[boot option|doc/advanced_topics/boot_options]]:

    iommu=soft

<h2 id="intel">Intel</h2>

### Affected graphics cards

Various Intel graphics card, including but not limited to:

<table>
<tr><th>Name</th><th>ID</th><th>Revision number</th></tr>
<tr><td>Intel Corporation TigerLake-LP GT2 [Iris Xe Graphics]</td><td>[8086:9a49]</td><td></td></tr>
<tr><td>Intel Corporation JasperLake [UHD Graphics]</td><td>[8086:4e55]</td><td></td></tr>
<tr><td>Intel Corporation Iris Plus Graphics G1 (Ice Lake)</td><td>[8086:8a56]</td><td></td></tr>
</table>

### Workaround

Try starting Tails using the following [[boot
option|doc/advanced_topics/boot_options]]:

        i915.force_probe=MODEL

… replacing *MODEL* with the 4 characters you see after `8086:`
on the error message.

For example, if you see an error about `8086:4c8a`, use this boot option:
`i915.force_probe=4c8a`.

<h2 id="nvidia-turing">Nvidia NV160 family (Turing)</h2>

As of 2020-03-19, much of these Nvidia graphics cards are [not
supported](https://nouveau.freedesktop.org/wiki/FeatureMatrix/) by Tails yet.

### Affected graphics cards

<table>
        <tr>
            <th><strong>Code name</strong>  </th>
            <th><strong>Official Name</strong> </th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>NV167 (TU117)</td>
            <td>GeForce GTX 1650</td>
            <td>GeForce RTX 2060 Mobile</td>
            <td>GeForce RTX 2070</td>
            <td>GeForce RTX 2070 Super</td>
            <td>GeForce RTX 2070m</td>
            <td>GeForce RTX 2080 Super</td>
        </tr>
</table>

### Possibly affected graphics cards

Graphics cards in the [NV160 family (Turing)](https://nouveau.freedesktop.org/CodeNames.html#NV160) might be affected.

### Workaround

Try starting Tails using the following [[boot
options|doc/advanced_topics/boot_options]].
You should try only one of these boot options per start attempt.

* `nouveau.noaccel=1`

<h2 id="nvidia-ampere">Nvidia RTX 30X0 family (Ampere)</h2>

As of 2020-11-07, these Nvidia graphics cards are [not
supported](https://nouveau.freedesktop.org/wiki/FeatureMatrix/)
out of the box by Tails yet.

### Affected graphics cards

Graphics cards in the [[!wikipedia GeForce_30_series desc="Ampere family"]]
are affected.

<h1 id="other-issues">Other issues</h1>

<h2 id="black-screen-switchable-graphics">Black screen with switchable graphics computers</h2>

Some computers with switchable graphics (such as Optimus) fail to
choose a video card and end up on a black screen. This has been
reported for MacBook Pro 6,2, MacBook Pro 10,1 Retina, MacBook Pro
15-inch (early 2011) and might affect many others.

There are several possible workarounds for this issue:

* Explicitly select one of the two graphics adapters in the BIOS
  instead of letting the system choose one automatically. If this does
  not solve the problem, try selecting the other graphics adapter.

* For the Mac computers, it is possible to use a third-party
  application, <http://gfx.io/>, to force integrated graphics only through macOS.
  Then restart in that special mode that works with Tails.

<h2 id="sg-segfault">Cannot start GNOME session with switchable graphics computers</h2>

On some computers with switchable graphics, Tails 2.10 and later fails
to start the GNOME session and keeps returning to the [[Welcome
Screen|doc/first_steps/welcome_screen]].

Try starting Tails using the following [[boot
options|doc/advanced_topics/boot_options]].
You should try only one of these boot options per start attempt.

* `modprobe.blacklist=nouveau`

<h2 id="intel-gm965">Intel GM965/GL960</h2>

<!--
Issue: #12217, Linux #187001
-->

### Affected graphics cards

<table>
<tr><th>Name</th><th>ID</th><th>Revision number</th></tr>
<tr><td>Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller (primary)</td><td>[8086:2a02]</td><td></td></tr>
<tr><td>Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller (secondar)</td><td>[8086:2a03]</td><td></td></tr>
</table>

The laptop crashes while running Tails.

### Workaround

Adding `video=SVIDEO-1:d` to the
[[boot options|doc/advanced_topics/boot_options]] fixes the issue.

<h2 id="qemu">Virtual machines with <span class="application">virt-manager</span>, <span class="application">libvirt</span> and <span class="application">QEMU</span></h2>

See the
[[dedicated troubleshooting documentation|doc/advanced_topics/virtualization/virt-manager#graphics-issues]]
about graphics issues in Tails running inside a virtual machine
with <span class="application">virt-manager</span>.

<h2 id="vmware">Virtual machines with <span class="application">VMware</span></h2>

To improve support of Tails running inside a virtual machine with
*VMware*, install the
`open-vm-tools-desktop` software package as [[Additional
Software|doc/persistent_storage/additional_software]] in Tails.

<h2 id="boot-options">Probing EDD error</h2>
Use these instructions if Tails failed to start and displayed the
   following error:

1. Follow [[our guide for editing boot options|doc/advanced_topics/boot_options]].

1. For the guide's "Modify the boot options as needed" step,
   type `edd=off` to add this option to the command line.
