[[!meta title="Error while checking for upgrades"]]

Tails could not determine whether an upgrade is available from our website.
This is most likely caused by a network connection problem.

To solve it:

1. Check your network connection and restart Tails to check for upgrades again.

1. Read our [[release notes|doc/upgrade/release_notes]] to see if
   there are known issues with automatically upgrading to the latest version of
   Tails.

1. If the problem persists, do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade#manual]].

<a id="4.18"></a>

Automatic upgrades are broken between Tails 4.15 and Tails 4.18
===============================================================

To upgrade from Tails 4.15, Tails 4.16, Tails 4.17, or Tails 4.18, you can either:

- Do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade#manual]].

- Fix the automatic upgrade from a terminal. To do so:

  1. Start Tails and set up an
     [[administration password|doc/first_steps/welcome_screen/administration_password]].

  1. In a terminal, execute the following command:

         torsocks curl --silent https://tails.net/isrg-root-x1-cross-signed.pem \
         | sudo tee --append /usr/local/etc/ssl/certs/tails.net-CA.pem \
         && systemctl --user restart tails-upgrade-frontend

     <div class="note">

     <p>This command is a single command that wraps across several lines.
     Copy and paste the entire block at once and make sure that it executes
     as a single command.</p>

     </div>

  1. Approximately 30 seconds later, you should be prompted to upgrade to the latest
     version of Tails. If no prompt appears, you might already be running the
     latest version of Tails.
