[[!meta title="Migrating OpenPGP configuration from Enigmail in Thunderbird 78"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

Since Tails 4.13 (November 2020), *Thunderbird* 78 replaces the
*Enigmail* extension with built-in support for OpenPGP encryption.

If you used *Enigmail* before Tails 4.13, follow the instructions below to
migrate from *Enigmail* to *Thunderbird* 78. Tails does not include *Enigmail*
2.2, the last version of the extension, which automates this migration.

See also the official [OpenPGP in Thunderbird - HOWTO and
FAQ](https://support.mozilla.org/kb/openpgp-thunderbird-howto-and-faq).

<h1 id="private">Migrate your private key</h1>

<h2 id="export-private">Export your private key using <em>Kleopatra</em></h2>

From the desktop:

1. Choose **Applications&nbsp;▸ Accessories&nbsp;▸ Kleopatra**.

1. Select the private key that you want to migrate to *Thunderbird*.

1. Choose **File&nbsp;▸ Export Secret Keys…** and save this private key to your
   *Home* directory.

1. Close *Kleopatra*.

<h2 id="import-private">Import your private key in <em>Thunderbird</em></h2>

In *Thunderbird*:

1. Choose **[[!img lib/open-menu.png alt="Menu" class="symbolic"
   link="no"]]&nbsp;▸ Account Settings**.

1. In the left pane, identify the account
   that corresponds to the private key that you want to import and
   choose **End-to-End Encryption**.

1. In the right pane, click the **Add Key…** button.

1. In the **Add a Personal OpenPGP Key** dialog, choose **Import an
   existing OpenPGP Key** and click **Continue**.

1. Click the **Select File to Import…** button and choose
   the private key that your exported from *Kleopatra*.

1. In the next dialog, make sure that your private key is listed and
   that the option **Treat this key as a Personal Key** is selected.

1. Click **Continue**, enter the passphrase for your private key (if
   any), and click **Continue** again.

   Your private key should now be listed in the **End-to-End
   Encryption** settings of your account.

1. Select your private key to enable OpenPGP encryption for this
   account.

<h2 id="primary-password">Set up a Primary Password</h2>

In *Thunderbird* 78, OpenPGP private keys are not protected by a passphrase.
That's why we recommend that you set up a Primary Password.

With a Primary Password, your private key is encrypted in your
*Thunderbird* profile and only unlocked while *Thunderbird* is running.
If your *Thunderbird* profile is stored in your Persistent Storage, then
your private key is encrypted twice: once by *Thunderbird* in your
profile and a second time by the encryption of the Persistent Storage.

1. Choose **[[!img lib/open-menu.png alt="Menu" class="symbolic"
   link="no"]]&nbsp;▸ Settings**.

1. Choose **Privacy & Security**.

1. In the **Passwords** section, select the option **Use a Primary
   Password**.

1. In the **Change Primary Password** dialog, enter your Primary Password
   and click **Ok**.

<h1 id="public">Migrate the public keys of your contacts</h1>

<h2 id="export-public">Export the public keys using <em>Kleopatra</em></h2>

From the desktop:

1. Choose **Applications&nbsp;▸ Accessories&nbsp;▸ Kleopatra**.

1. Select the public keys that you want to migrate to *Thunderbird*.

   You can use **Shift+click** and **Ctrl+click** to select multiple keys.

1. Choose **File&nbsp;▸ Export…** and save these public keys to your
   *Home* directory.

1. Close *Kleopatra*.

<h2 id="import-public">Import the public keys in <em>Thunderbird</em></h2>

In *Thunderbird*:

1. Choose **[[!img lib/open-menu.png alt="Menu" class="symbolic"
   link="no"]]&nbsp;▸ Tools&nbsp;▸ OpenPGP Key Manager**.

1. In the **OpenPGP Key Manager**, choose **File&nbsp;▸ Import Public Key(s)
   From File.**

1. Choose the file containing the public keys that you exported from
   *Kleopatra*.

   If *Thunderbird* fails to import many public keys at once, split
   these public keys into several smaller files. *Thunderbird* can only import
   public key files of less than 5 MB.

<h2 id="accept-public">Mark the public keys as accepted</h2>

By default, new public keys are not marked as "*accepted*" by *Thunderbird* and
you cannot encrypt emails to "unaccepted" keys.

To mark a public key as accepted:

1. Choose **[[!img lib/open-menu.png alt="Menu" class="symbolic"
   link="no"]]&nbsp;▸ Tools&nbsp;▸ OpenPGP Key Manager**.

1. Double-click on the public key that you want to mark as accepted.

1. In the **Your Acceptance** tab of the **Key Properties** dialog,
   select the option that applies to how much you verified the public
   key.

<h2 id="disable-gnupg">Turn off the GnuPG feature of your Persistent Storage</h2>

If you only use OpenPGP in *Thunderbird*, you can turn off the GnuPG
feature of the Persistent Storage:

1. Choose **Applications&nbsp;▸ Persistent Storage**.

1. Turn off the GnuPG feature.
