[[!meta title="Administration password"]]

In Tails, an administration password (also called *root password* or *amnesia password*) is required to perform system
administration tasks.
For example:

  - To [[install additional software|persistent_storage/additional_software]]
  - To [[access the internal hard disks of the computer|doc/advanced_topics/internal_hard_disk]]
  - To execute commands with <span class="command">sudo</span>

[[!img password-prompt.png link="no" alt="Authentication required: amnesia password (also called *administration password* or *root password*)"]] <!-- Note for translators: the alt tag is useful for SEO. -->

Security implications of setting up an administration password
==============================================================

For better security, no administration password is set up by default.

When you set up an administration password, an attacker who can get physical
access to your computer while Tails is running could be able to break your
security and:

- Monitor all your activity
- Reveal your IP address
- Access all the data in your Persistent Storage
- Read and write data on the internal hard disk of the computer
- Install such vulnerabilities permanently on your Tails USB stick

To learn your administration password, an attacker could watch your keyboard
while you type, for example looking over your shoulders or through a video
surveillance camera.

To prevent such an attack:

- Hide your keyboard while typing your administration password in public spaces.
- Never leave your computer unattended while running Tails.
- Learn how to [[shut down Tails quickly|doc/first_steps/shutdown]] in case of emergency.

Set up an administration password
=================================

In order to perform administration tasks, you need to set up an administration
password when starting Tails, using the [[Welcome
Screen|welcome_screen]].

1. When the Welcome Screen appears, click on the
   **[[!img lib/list-add.png alt="Add Additional Setting" class="symbolic" link="no"]]** button.

   [[!img additional.png link="no" alt=""]]

2. Choose **Administration Password** in the **Additional Settings** dialog.

3. Specify a password of your choice in both the
   <span class="guilabel">Administration Password</span> and
   <span class="guilabel">Confirm</span> text boxes then click
   <span class="bold">Add</span>.

<div class="note">

<p>For security, it is impossible to set up an administration password after
starting Tails. Otherwise, a compromised application could bypass some of the
security built in Tails.</p>

</div>

<a id="open_root_terminal"></a>

How to open a root terminal
===========================

To open a root terminal during your working session, you can do any of the following:

  - Choose
    <span class="menuchoice">
      <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
      <span class="guisubmenu">System Tools</span>&nbsp;▸
      <span class="guimenuitem">Root Terminal</span></span>.

  - Execute <span class="command">sudo -i</span> in a terminal.
