[[!meta title="Connecting to the Tor network"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

Everything you do on the Internet from Tails goes through the Tor network.

Tor encrypts and anonymizes your connection by passing it through 3 relays. Tor
relays are servers operated by different people and organizations around the
world.

[[!img tor.svg link="no" alt="A Tor connection goes through 3 relays with the last one establishing the actual connection to the final destination"]]

You cannot access the Internet from Tails until you are connected to Tor. For
example, *Tor Browser* displays the error message <span class="code">Proxy
server refusing connections</span> until you are connected to Tor.

<div class="note">

<p>Because Tor routes your Internet traffic through 3 relays
before reaching its destination, the
connection is slower than when your are not using Tor.</p>

<p>See our documentation on
[[why Tor is slow|doc/anonymous_internet/tor/slow]].</p>

</div>

To connect to the Tor network:

1. [[Connect to a local network|networkmanager]], wired, Wi-Fi, or mobile.

2. The *Tor Connection* assistant appears to help you connect to the Tor network.

   [[!img tor-connection.png link="no"]]

3. Choose whether you want to:

   - Connect to Tor automatically

   - Hide to your local network that you are connecting to Tor

   The implications of both methods are detailed below.

Tor relays and bridges
======================

- **Public Tor relays**

  Most of the time, your local network does not block access to the Tor network
  and you can use a public relay as your first Tor relay.

  Using a public Tor relay as your first Tor relay makes it clear to your local
  network that you are connecting to Tor, while still keeping your online
  activity secure and anonymous.

- **Tor bridges**

  Tor bridges are secret Tor relays that keep your connection to the Tor
  network hidden.

  Use a bridge as your first Tor relay if connecting to Tor is blocked or if
  using Tor could look suspicious to someone who monitors your Internet
  connection.

  The technology used by Tor bridges is designed to circumvent censorship
  where connections to Tor are blocked, for example in some countries with heavy censorship,
  by some public networks, or by some parental controls.

  It does so by camouflaging your connection so it cannot be recognized as a
  connection to Tor. As a consequence, the same technology can be used to hide
  that you are using Tor if it could look suspicious to someone who monitors
  your Internet connection.

  Tor bridges are often less reliable and slower than public Tor relays.

Connecting to Tor automatically
===============================

We recommend connecting to Tor automatically if you are on a public Wi-Fi
network or if many people in your country use Tor to circumvent censorship.

When you choose this option, Tails tries different ways of connecting to Tor
until it succeeds:

1. Tails tries to connect to Tor directly using **public relays**, without
   using a bridge.

1. Tails tries to connect to Tor using one of the **default bridges**, already
   included in Tails, if connecting using public relays fails.

1. Tails asks you to configure a **custom bridge**, if connecting using the
   default bridges fails.

Someone monitoring your Internet connection could identify these attempts as
coming from a Tails user.

If connecting to Tor automatically fails, the *Tor Connection* assistant helps
you:

- [[Sign in to the network using a captive portal|unsafe_browser]]
- Configure a local proxy

<div class="note">

<p>In the future, Tails will also automatically:</p>

<ul>
<li>Detect if you have to sign in to the local network using a captive portal ([[!tails_ticket 5785]])</li>
</ul>

</div>

Hiding to your local network that you are connecting to Tor
===========================================================

You might need to go unnoticed if using Tor could look suspicious to someone
who monitors your Internet connection.

When you choose this option, Tails will only connect to Tor after you configure a Tor bridge. Bridges are
secret Tor relays that hide that you are connecting to Tor.

<div class="note">

<p>It is impossible to hide to the websites that you visit that you are using
Tor, because the <a href="https://metrics.torproject.org/exonerator.html">list
of exit nodes of the Tor network is public</a>.</p>

</div>

Our team is doing its best to help you connect to Tor using the most discrete
types of Tor bridges. That is why, when you decide to hide that you are connecting to Tor:

<!-- Mention captive portal detection here once we have #5785 -->

- Default bridges are not available.

  You will have to know the address of a custom bridge.

  To request a custom bridge, you can either:

  1. Request a bridge on [https://bridges.torproject.org/](https://bridges.torproject.org/bridges?transport=obfs4).

     We recommend doing so before starting Tails and ideally from a different
     local network than the one on which you want to hide that you are using
     Tor.

  1. Send an empty email to
     <a href="mailto:bridges@torproject.org">bridges@torproject.org</a> from a
     Gmail or Riseup email address.

     For example, you can send the email from your phone and type the bridge in Tails.

     Sending the email reveals to Gmail or Riseup that you are trying to
     connect to Tor but not to someone who monitors your Internet connection.

     Even someone who knows your bridge cannot know what you are doing online
     from Tails.

- You can only use the types of bridge that our team considers discrete enough.

  Currently in Tails, only **obfs4 bridges** hide that you are using Tor.

- To save the last Tor bridge that connected to Tor successfully, turn on the
  [[Tor Bridge feature of the Persistent
  Storage|doc/first_steps/persistence/configure#tor-bridge]].

<div class="note">

<p>In the future, we will make it easier to use a custom bridge by:</p>

<ul>
<li>Allowing you to scan the QR code returned by <a href="mailto:bridges@torproject.org">bridges@torproject.org</a> ([[!tails_ticket 18219]])</li>
<li>Allowing you to request a bridge from Tails by solving a CAPTCHA ([[!tails_ticket 15331]])</li>
</ul>

</div>

Troubleshooting Tor bridges
===========================

If connecting to Tor using a custom bridge fails, the *Tor Connection* assistant
helps you:

- Set the clock of your computer to the correct time zone
- [[Sign in to the network using a captive portal|unsafe_browser]]
- Configure a local proxy
- Enter a different bridge

The computer clock is set to an incorrect time zone
---------------------------------------------------

For a Tor bridge to work, the clock of your computer must be correct.

Choose **Fix Clock** in the error screen of the *Tor Connection* assistant to
set the time zone and time of your computer.

You did not enter the bridge correctly
--------------------------------------

An obfs4 bridge looks like:

    obfs4 1.2.3.4:1234 B0E566C9031657EA7ED3FC9D248E8AC4F37635A4 cert=OYWq67L7MDApdJCctUAF7rX8LHvMxvIBPHOoAp0+YXzlQdsxhw6EapaMNwbbGICkpY8CPQ iat-mode=0

You need to enter the entire line, not just the IP address and port
combination.

The bridge is no longer operational
-----------------------------------

It is possible that the bridge that you entered is no longer working.

Try entering another bridge or requesting other bridges.

Viewing the status of Tor
=========================

The status of Tor appears as an onion icon in the
notification area:

[[!img doc/first_steps/introduction_to_gnome_and_the_tails_desktop/tor-status.png link="no"]]

  - [[!img lib/symbolic/tor-connected.png alt="Onion icon" link=no class=symbolic]]
    You are connected to Tor.

  - [[!img lib/symbolic/tor-disconnected.png alt="Onion icon that is crossed out" link=no class="symbolic"]]
    You are not connected to Tor.
