[[!meta title="Creating the Persistent Storage"]]

To create the Persistent Storage, choose
**Applications**&nbsp;▸ **Tails**&nbsp;▸ **Configure persistent volume**.

[[!img creation.png link="no" alt=""]]

<div class="note">

<p>If you receive the error message <em>Device was not created using a USB
image or Tails installer</em>, then you need to reinstall Tails either by:</p>

<ul>
  <li>Installing using our [[USB image|install/download]] instead of our ISO image</li>
  <li>[[Installing from another Tails|install/clone]]</li>
</ul>

<p>If you receive the error message while running Tails using
<i>virt-manager</i>, then you need to
[[run Tails from our USB image|doc/advanced_topics/virtualization/virt-manager#usb_image]]
instead of our ISO image.</p>

</div>

<div class="note">

<!-- We should improve this error message in #10048 and get rid of this note. -->

<p>The error message <em>Error, Persistence volume is not
unlocked.</em> means that the Persistent Storage was not unlocked in
the Welcome Screen. You cannot use or configure your Persistent Storage
but you can delete it and create a new one.</p>

<p>To change the configuration of your Persistent Storage, restart Tails,
unlock the Persistent Storage, and choose <strong>Applications</strong>&nbsp;▸
<strong>Tails</strong>&nbsp;▸ <strong>Configure persistent volume</strong>
again.</p>

</div>

<div class="bug">

<p>There is currently no visible way to close the
<b>Configure persistent volume</b> application when no changes have been made.</p>

<p>To close the <b>Configure persistent volume</b> application,
press <span class="keycap">Esc</span>.</p>

</div>

When run for the first time, or after [[deleting the Persistent
Storage|delete]], an assistant allows you to create a Persistent Storage in
the free space left on the USB stick. Refer to our [[installation
instructions|install/clone#create-persistence]] for more guidance on
creating the Persistent Storage.

