[[!meta title="Warnings about the Persistent Storage"]]

[[!toc levels=1]]

<a id="sensitive_documents"></a>

Storing sensitive documents
===========================

The Persistent Storage is not hidden. An attacker in possession of
your USB stick can know that there is a Persistent Storage on it. Take into consideration
that you can be forced or tricked to give out its passphrase.

Read also our instructions to [[securely delete the Persistent Storage|delete]].

<a id="overwriting_configurations"></a>

Overwriting configurations
==========================

You can weaken your security or break some programs if you use the
Persistent Storage to overwrite their settings. The programs
included in Tails are carefully configured with security in mind.
Be especially careful when using the
[[Dotfiles|persistence#dotfiles]] feature.

The anonymity of Tor and Tails relies on making it harder to
distinguish one Tails user from another. In some cases, changing the default
settings can break your anonymity.

<a id="open_other_systems"></a>

Opening the Persistent Storage from another operating system
============================================================

Opening your Persistent Storage from another operating system can compromise
your security. For example, the other operating system might create thumbnails
of images or automatically index the content of the files in the Persistent
Storage.

There are currently no easy tools to open a Persistent Storage from Windows or
macOS anyway, so there is no risk of doing so by mistake. If you plug your
Tails USB stick in Linux, you will probably be asked to enter the passphrase of
your Persistent Storage automatically, for example in Debian or Ubuntu.

To exchange files between your Persistent Storage and another operating system,
store these files instead on a separate USB stick or external hard disk. You
can:

* [[Create an encrypted volume using
  *VeraCrypt*|encryption_and_privacy/veracrypt]] to store multiple files in a
  kind of encrypted folder or partition. *VeraCrypt* works on Windows, macOS,
  and Linux.

* [[Encrypt files using *Kleopatra*|encryption_and_privacy/kleopatra]].
  *Kleopatra* works on Windows and Linux, but not macOS.

* [[Delete securely the files|encryption_and_privacy/secure_deletion]] that you
  might have to store unencrypted.
