[[!meta title="Persistent Storage"]]

Everything you do disappears automatically when you shut down Tails.

But you can save some of your files and configuration in a Persistent
Storage on your Tails USB stick, for example:

- Your documents
- Your Wi-Fi passwords
- Your brower bookmarks
- ...

The Persistent Storage is an encrypted partition protected by a passphrase
that occupies all the free space left on the USB stick.

Everything in the Persistent Storage is encrypted automatically.

You can choose to unlock your Persistent Storage or not each time you
start Tails.

<div class="caution">

<p>The Persistent Storage is not hidden. An attacker in possession of your USB
stick can know that there is a Persistent Storage. Take into consideration that
you could be forced or tricked to give out its passphrase.</p>

</div>

[[!inline pages="doc/persistent_storage.index" raw="yes" sort="age"]]

<h2 id="luks">How strong is the encryption of the Persistent Storage?</h2>

The encryption of the Persistent Storage uses LUKS and DMCrypt.

[LUKS](https://gitlab.com/cryptsetup/cryptsetup/) and
[DMCrypt](https://gitlab.com/cryptsetup/cryptsetup/-/wikis/DMCrypt) are the
standard system for disk encryption in Linux. Tails uses their default
encryption parameters, which are considered highly secure. This is the same
technique as we recommend for [[creating and using encrypted
volumes|doc/encryption_and_privacy/encrypted_volumes]] in general.

<div class="attack">

<!-- Consider removing after #18148. -->

<p>The weakest point of such encryption is often the passphrase chosen by
the user.</p>

   <p>We recommend choosing a long passphrase made of 5 to 7 random words.
   <a href="https://theintercept.com/2015/03/26/passphrases-can-memorize-attackers-cant-guess/">See
   this article about memorizable and secure passphrases.</a></p>

<!-- Spaces added for translators. -->

</div>

<div class="tip">

<p>To learn more about how the Persistent Storage is implemented, see our
[[design documentation|contribute/design/persistence]].</p>

</div>
