[[!meta robots="noindex"]]

1. <p class="mac upgrade-mac">
   Open <span class="application">Finder</span> and choose
   <span class="application">balenaEtcher</span> in
   <span class="guilabel">Applications</span>.
   </p>

   <p class="windows upgrade-windows">
   Open the <span class="application">balenaEtcher</span> download.
   </p>

   At the security warning, confirm that you want to open
   <span class="application">balenaEtcher</span>.

   <span class="application">balenaEtcher</span> starts.

   [[!img install/inc/screenshots/etcher_in_mac.png class="mac upgrade-mac" link="no" alt=""]]
   [[!img install/inc/screenshots/etcher_in_windows.png class="windows upgrade-windows" link="no" alt=""]]

<h1 id="install" class="step">Install <span class="upgrade">an intermediary</span> Tails using <em>balenaEtcher</em></h1>

<div class="step-image usb">[[!img install/inc/infography/install-tails.png link="no" alt=""]]</div>
<div class="step-image upgrade">[[!img install/inc/infography/install-upgrade-usb-only.png link="no" alt=""]]</div>

1. Plug in the USB stick on which you want to install
   <span class="usb">Tails.</span>
   <span class="upgrade">the intermediary Tails.</span>

   <div class="note upgrade"><p>The Persistent Storage of your Tails USB stick will not be
   copied to the temporary Tails.</p></div>

1. Click the **Flash from file** button.

   Choose the USB image that you downloaded earlier.

   <div class="note">
   <p>Make sure that the USB image has an
   <span class="filename">.img</span> file extension.</p>

   <p>If the image has an <i>.iso</i> file
   extension, it is not the correct image. Please go back to the
   <span class="windows">[[download step|windows#download]].</span>
   <span class="mac">[[download step|mac#download]].</span>
   <span class="upgrade-windows">[[download step|upgrade/windows#download]].</span>
   <span class="upgrade-mac">[[download step|upgrade/mac#download]].</span></p>
   </div>

1. Click the **Select target** button to select your USB stick.

   <div class="caution"><p>All the data on this USB stick will be lost.</p></div>

1. Click <span class="bold">Flash</span>.

   Enter your password if you are asked for it.

   The installation takes a few minutes.

   After installing Tails, <span class="application">balenaEtcher</span> verifies the
   installation.

   <div class="bug">
   <p>If the verification of <span class="application">balenaEtcher</span>
   fails, try to install again or try using a different USB
   stick.</p>
   </div>

1. Close <span class="application">balenaEtcher</span>.

   <p class="mac upgrade-mac">
   If a notification about the USB stick not being readable appears,
   click <span class="bold">Eject</span> to eject the USB stick.
   </p>
