[[!meta robots="noindex"]]

<div class="windows linux mac expert">

<div class="success">

<video autoplay loop muted width="200" height="200" poster="https://tails.net/install/inc/success/install.png">
  <source src="https://tails.net/install/inc/success/install.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
</video>

<div>
  <p class="big">Well done!</p>

  <p>You have installed Tails on your USB stick.</p>

  <p>In the next step, you will make your computer start on this USB stick.</p>

  <p>Tails might not work on your computer, so good luck!</p>
</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="note clone">

<p>If you already started on the other Tails, go directly to step 3:
<a href="#verify-other">Verify that the other Tails is up-to-date</a>.</p>

</div>

<h1 id="back" class="step">Open these instructions on another device</h1>

<div class="step-image">[[!img install/inc/infography/switch-context.png link="no" alt=""]]</div>

In the next step, you will shut down the computer. To be able to follow
the rest of the instructions afterwards, you can either:

   - Scan this QR code on your smartphone or tablet:

     [[!img install/inc/qrcodes/tails_net_install_windows_back_1.png class="windows" link="no" alt=""]]
     [[!img install/inc/qrcodes/tails_net_install_mac_back_1.png class="mac" link="no" alt=""]]
     [[!img install/inc/qrcodes/tails_net_install_linux_back_1.png class="linux" link="no" alt=""]]
     [[!img install/inc/qrcodes/tails_net_install_expert_back_1.png class="expert" link="no" alt=""]]
     [[!img install/inc/qrcodes/tails_net_install_clone_pc_back_1.png class="pc-clone" link="no" alt=""]]
     [[!img install/inc/qrcodes/tails_net_install_clone_mac_back_1.png class="mac-clone" link="no" alt=""]]
     [[!img install/inc/qrcodes/tails_net_upgrade_tails_back_1.png class="upgrade-tails" link="no" alt=""]]
     [[!img install/inc/qrcodes/tails_net_upgrade_windows_back_1.png class="upgrade-windows" link="no" alt=""]]
     [[!img install/inc/qrcodes/tails_net_upgrade_mac_back_1.png class="upgrade-mac" link="no" alt=""]]
     [[!img install/inc/qrcodes/tails_net_upgrade_linux_back_1.png class="upgrade-linux" link="no" alt=""]]
     [[!img install/inc/qrcodes/tails_net_upgrade_clone_back_1.png class="upgrade-clone" link="no" alt=""]]

   - Print these instructions on paper.

   - Take note of the URL of this page:

     <span class="command windows">`https://tails.net/install/windows?back=1`</span>
     <span class="command mac">`https://tails.net/install/mac?back=1`</span>
     <span class="command linux">`https://tails.net/install/linux?back=1`</span>
     <span class="command expert">`https://tails.net/install/expert?back=1`</span>
     <span class="command pc-clone">`https://tails.net/install/clone/pc?back=1`</span>
     <span class="command mac-clone">`https://tails.net/install/clone/mac?back=1`</span>
     <span class="command upgrade-tails">`https://tails.net/upgrade/tails?back=1`</span>
     <span class="command upgrade-windows">`https://tails.net/upgrade/windows?back=1`</span>
     <span class="command upgrade-mac">`https://tails.net/upgrade/mac?back=1`</span>
     <span class="command upgrade-linux">`https://tails.net/upgrade/linux?back=1`</span>
     <span class="command upgrade-clone">`https://tails.net/upgrade/clone?back=1`</span>

<h1 id="intermediary" class="step upgrade-tails upgrade-os">Restart on the intermediary Tails</h1>
<h1 id="other" class="step clone">Restart on the other Tails</h1>
<h1 id="restart" class="step windows linux mac expert">Restart on your Tails USB stick</h1>

<div class="step-image">
[[!img install/inc/infography/restart-on-tails.png link="no" class="windows linux mac expert" alt=""]]
[[!img install/inc/infography/restart-on-other-tails.png link="no" class="clone upgrade-os" alt=""]]
[[!img install/inc/infography/restart-on-upgrade-usb.png link="no" class="upgrade-tails" alt=""]]
</div>

<h2>Make the computer start on the USB stick</h2>

<div class="windows upgrade-windows">
[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/windows_boot_menu.inline" raw="yes" sort="age"]]
</div>

<div class="linux expert pc-clone upgrade-clone upgrade-tails upgrade-linux">
[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/pc_boot_menu.inline" raw="yes" sort="age"]]
</div>

<div class="mac mac-clone upgrade-mac">
[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/mac_startup_disks.inline" raw="yes" sort="age"]]
</div>

<h2 id="troubleshooting">Troubleshooting</h2>

<ul>

<li class="windows upgrade-windows">
<p>If no Boot Menu appears, refer to the [[instructions on starting Tails using
the Boot Menu key|doc/first_steps/start/pc#boot-menu-key]].</p>
</li>

<li class="linux expert pc-clone upgrade-clone upgrade-tails upgrade-linux">
<p>If none of the possible Boot Menu keys from the previous technique work,
refer to the [[troubleshooting instructions about Tails not starting at
all|doc/first_steps/start/pc#not-at-all]].</p>
</li>

<li class="windows upgrade-windows linux expert pc-clone upgrade-clone upgrade-tails upgrade-linux">
<p>If the Boot Menu appears but your USB stick is not listed in the Boot Menu,
wait a few minutes and try again. Some USB sticks need some rest after installing.</p>
</li>

<li>
<p class="windows upgrade-windows linux expert pc-clone upgrade-clone upgrade-tails upgrade-linux">If your USB stick is listed in the Boot Menu but the Boot Loader does not appear:</p>
<p class="mac mac-clone upgrade-mac">If your USB stick appears in the list of startup disks but the Boot Loader does not appear:</p>
[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/basic_troubleshooting.inline" raw="yes" sort="age"]]
<p>If your computer still does not display the Boot Loader, it might currently be impossible to start Tails on your computer.</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>If the Boot Loader appears but Tails fails to start after the Boot Loader,
refer to
<span class="windows upgrade-windows linux expert pc-clone upgrade-clone upgrade-tails upgrade-linux">[[the troubleshooting section about Tails not starting after the Boot Loader|doc/first_steps/start/pc#not-entirely]].</span>
<span class="mac mac-clone upgrade-mac">[[the troubleshooting section about Tails not starting after the Boot Loader|doc/first_steps/start/mac#not-entirely]].</span></p>
</li>

</ul>

<div class="tip windows upgrade-windows">
<p>Starting the computer using a Boot Menu key can be faster than
starting the computer on Windows first and then on Tails. We
recommend you learn how to [[start Tails using the Boot Menu
key|doc/first_steps/start/pc#boot-menu-key]] if you use Tails
regularly.</p>
</div>

<div class="tip mac upgrade-mac">

<p>Apple does not prioritize collaborating with Free Software projects. Their
newest hardware is usually very hard for Free Software developers to get
working with Linux, and thus Tails. PC hardware tends to be more open and work
better with Linux.</p>

</div>

<h1 id="tails" class="step windows linux mac">Welcome to Tails!</h1>

<div class="step-image">[[!img install/inc/infography/tails.png link="no" alt=""]]</div>

<h2 class="clone upgrade">Starting Tails</h2>

1. After the Boot Menu, a loading screen appears.

   [[!img inc/screenshots/plymouth.png link="no" alt=""]]

1. One to two minutes after the Boot Loader and the loading screen, the Welcome Screen appears.

   [[!img doc/first_steps/welcome_screen/welcome_screen.png link="no" alt="Welcome to Tails!"]]

1. In the Welcome Screen, select your language and
keyboard layout in the <span class="guilabel">Language & Region</span> section.
Click <span class="bold">Start Tails</span>.

   <div class="bug mac upgrade-mac">
   <p>If your keyboard or touchpad doesn't work, try using a USB keyboard or mouse.</p>
   </div>

1. After 15&ndash;30 seconds, the Tails desktop appears.

   [[!img install/inc/screenshots/desktop.png link="no" alt="Tails desktop"]]
