[[!meta title="Fundraising director"]]

[[!meta stylesheet="jobs" rel="stylesheet" title=""]]
[[!tag job/staff]]

[[!meta robots="noindex"]]

**This job application is not open yet. Stay tuned!**

[[!toc levels=1]]

Summary
=======

Tails, a portable operating system that protects against surveillance and
censorship, is looking for a Fundraising Director to help us develop and grow our
fundraising initiatives.

We are looking for a gifted communicator who can tell the story of Tails to a
wide variety of different current and potential future donors. You'll take the
lead on all fundraising efforts from strategy through to execution, and play a
key role in ensuring the financial health and sustainability of the project.
This role will work closely with our core teams to connect our technical &
product strategy to funding opportunities.

We already have experience raising a [[yearly budget|doc/about/finances]] of
around $400k from small donors, public grants, and private foundations. But our
team is growing and we are creating this new role to make our growth
sustainable. You will have the autonomy to further develop and rethink in depth
how Tails funds its work.

About Tails
===========

[[!inline pages="jobs/about_tails" raw="yes" sort="age"]]

About this position
===================

Key responsibilities
--------------------

**Funding strategy and infrastructure:**

- Develop and execute on annual fundraising plans that support Tails' strategic
  plan and goals.

- Research and pursue funding opportunities that map to our roadmaps and
  project ideas.

- Track and report on data for fundraising and grants, work with our Accounting
  team to produce budgets and revenue forecasting.

- Improve our fundraising infrastructure, toolchain, and processes.

**Grants writing and management:**

- Take the lead on writing grant proposals in coordination with relevant
  internal stakeholders and manage the submission process.

- Be the point of contact with funders for ongoing grants, manage the grants'
  reporting calendar and paperwork, and collaborate with internal teams to
  prepare reports.

**Donor relationship management:**

- Recruit, cultivate, and steward both small and major donors.
  Create and manage a donor recognition and stewardship program. (note: I
  assume we don't really have one now?)

- Act as the lead on all donation campaigns. (note: we might want to add how
  many we currently do?)

- Own direct communication with donors, be comfortable talking to donors from a
  variety of backgrounds and contexts, online and in person.

- Attend, and maybe organize, public and private events on behalf of Tails.

- Maintain and administer our donor database.

Qualifications
--------------

- If you are part of a group that is under-represented in tech, we particularly
  encourage you to apply. We acknowledge that our community is not as diverse
  and equitable as we would like it to be. We understand that we are part of the
  problem. We want the Tails project to become more equitable.

- You can commit 15-25 hours per week on a long-term basis.
  The exact scope of your responsibilities will depend on how much
  you work within this range.

- 3+(?) years of experience fundraising and grant writing in a non-profit
  setting.

- Experience participating in groups that value transparency, autonomy, and
  horizontal decision-making.

- Solid understanding of basic fundraising principles.

- Experience with setting strategic funding targets and developing plans for
  execution.

- Experience sourcing new funding opportunities.

- Good verbal and written communication skills in English.

- Proven success in donor relationship management.

- Self-organized, systematic, able to set priorities and manage timelines.

- Conceptual understanding of software development work.

- Enthusiastic about our [[mission and values|contribute/mission]], motivated
  by social impact.

- Some experience working fully remote, primarily with asynchronous
  communication.

- You can work comfortably at least 3 hours during the peak of Tails
  activities: between 10:00 and 17:00 CEST/CET.

Compensation and benefits
-------------------------

Pay scale is 30-70 k€ per year, including medical coverage.

[[!inline pages="jobs/compensation" raw="yes" sort="age"]]

<a id="apply"></a>

How to apply
============

Send an email to <tails-fundraising@boum.org>.

<style>
.apply-portfolio, .apply-contributions { display: none; }
</style>

[[!inline pages="jobs/apply" raw="yes" sort="age"]]
