[[!meta title="Fundraising Lead"]]

[[!meta stylesheet="jobs" rel="stylesheet" title=""]]
[[!tag job/staff]]
[[!meta robots="noindex"]]

**This job opening is closed.**

**Applications received after December 13, 2022, will not be considered.**

[[!toc levels=1]]

Tails is hiring a Fundraising Lead
==================================

Tails, a portable operating system that protects against surveillance and
censorship, is looking for a Fundraising Lead to help us develop and grow our
fundraising initiatives.

We are looking for a gifted communicator who can tell the story of Tails to a
wide variety of current and future donors. You'll take the
lead on all fundraising efforts from strategy through to execution, and play a
key role in ensuring the financial health and sustainability of the project.
This role will work closely with our core teams to connect our technical and
product strategy to funding opportunities.

We already have experience raising a [[yearly budget|doc/about/finances]] of
around $400k from small donors, public grants, and private foundations. But our
team is growing and we are creating a new role to make this growth
sustainable. You will have the autonomy to further develop and rethink in depth
how Tails funds its work.

About Tails
===========

[[!inline pages="jobs/about_tails" raw="yes" sort="age"]]

About this position
===================

You will be part of the Fundraising team and work with 3 other Tails
workers who have covered our fundraising work until now. We want you to
take over most of their work within 12 months. You will be
responsible to self-organize your work and time with the project's
priorities in mind.

You will also be part of the Tails Board. The Board is in charge of
maintaining not only an operating system but also the good health of the
project as a whole. Together, we continuously discuss and improve
organizational and strategic aspects of the project.

Key responsibilities
--------------------

**Funding strategy and infrastructure:**

- Develop and execute on annual fundraising plans that support Tails' strategic
  plan and goals.

- Research and pursue funding opportunities that map to our roadmaps and
  project ideas.

- Track and report on data for fundraising and grants, work with our Accounting
  team to produce budgets and revenue forecasting.

- Improve our fundraising infrastructure, toolchain, and processes.

  Right now our setup is pretty basic, for example, we don't have a CRM.

**Grants writing and management:**

- Take the lead on writing grant proposals in coordination with relevant
  internal stakeholders and manage the submission process.

  We applied successfully to grants upto to $200k, but feel the need to target
  bigger public grants.

- Be the point of contact with funders for ongoing grants, manage the
  reporting calendar and paperwork, and collaborate with internal teams to
  prepare reports.

**Donor relationship management:**

- Recruit, cultivate, and steward both small and major donors.

  We already have a list of past donors, but we don't have a good donor
  recognition and stewardship program or real experience with major donors.

- Act as the lead on all donation campaigns.

  We have been doing end-of-year fundraisers since 2017, but thought about
  doing other crowfunding campaigns for specific features.

- Own direct communication with donors, be comfortable talking to donors from a
  variety of backgrounds and contexts, online and in person.

- Attend, and maybe organize, public and private events on behalf of Tails.

- Maintain and administer our donor database.

Qualifications
--------------

- If you are part of a group that is under-represented in tech, we particularly
  encourage you to apply. We acknowledge that our community is not as diverse
  and equitable as we would like it to be. We understand that we are part of the
  problem. We want the Tails project to become more equitable.

- You can commit 15&ndash;25 hours per week on a long-term basis.
  The exact scope of your responsibilities will depend on how much
  you work within this range.

- Experience fundraising and grant writing in a nonprofit
  setting.

- Experience with setting strategic funding targets and developing plans for
  execution.

- Proven success in donor relationship management.

- Experience participating in groups that value transparency, autonomy, and
  horizontal decision-making.

- Solid understanding of basic fundraising principles.

- Good verbal and written communication skills in English.

- Self-organized, systematic, able to set priorities and manage timelines.

- Conceptual understanding of software development work.

- Enthusiastic about our [[mission and values|contribute/mission]], motivated
  by social impact.

- Some experience working fully remote, primarily with asynchronous
  communication.

- You can work comfortably at least 3 hours during the peak of Tails
  activities: between 10:00 and 17:00 CEST/CET.

Compensation and benefits
-------------------------

Pay scale is 30&ndash;70 k€ per year for 15&ndash;25 hours a week, including medical coverage.

[[!inline pages="jobs/compensation" raw="yes" sort="age"]]

<a id="apply"></a>

How to apply
============

Send an email to <tails-fundraising@boum.org>.

<style>
.apply-portfolio, .apply-contributions { display: none; }
</style>

[[!inline pages="jobs/apply" raw="yes" sort="age"]]
