[[!meta title="Project manager"]]

[[!meta stylesheet="jobs" rel="stylesheet" title=""]]
[[!tag job/staff]]

[[!meta robots="noindex"]]

**This job application is closed. Applications received after January 26,
  2022, will not be considered.**

[[!toc levels=1]]

Summary
=======

Tails, a portable operating system that protects against surveillance and
censorship, is looking for a project manager to make our organization
function better.

In the last 12 years, from a tiny volunteer-run Free Software project,
Tails has grown to a setup in which almost all the work is done by paid workers,
with a 350k€ yearly budget. This allowed us to increase by several orders of
magnitude the quality and pace of development of our product.

However, this growth happened faster than the corresponding, necessary increase
of our organization & social skills and capacity. As a result, lots of the
organization and social work still relies on the founders of the project.

For our project to thrive sustainably, we want to establish a new role for
someone who will work with us to develop our organization and manage our
day-to-day operations, building upon our core values of transparency, autonomy,
and horizontal decision-making.

About Tails
===========

[[!inline pages="jobs/about_tails" raw="yes" sort="age"]]

About this job application
==========================

## Role description

We are looking for someone who will work with us to make Tails a healthier
organization & work place, and provide project-wide management, supporting both
organizational and team-level objectives:

 - Facilitation, community management: facilitate decision-making about
   collective processes, implement them.

   For example, deciding who is invited to our yearly gathering, setting up
   a process for responding to Code of Conduct violations.

 - Project-wide management:

    - Help our teams function well and remain aligned with the priorities of the
      organization. Manage grant projects with deadlines.

    - Negotiate and document expectations. Set up self-evaluation, feedback, and
      accountability mechanisms.

    - Encourage workers to grow within the organization. Ensure their needs,
      desires, and problems they're facing are heard and followed-up with.

    - Identify knowledge gaps and recruitment needs: which roles we should hire
      for and when.

 - Facilitate the flow of useful information through the project, connecting it
   to the bigger picture as needed.

   For example, our Fundraising team needs to know about the capacity and
   priorities of our teams, so they can design grant proposals.

Transforming our organization is a substantial project. It will take time and
multiple iterations. It's OK: we are in it for the long run. You will have
agency in shaping the role and setting priorities, in collaboration with the
rest of team, based on which you will organize your work and time autonomously.

You will work remotely. Our team is global and with various degrees of
involvement, so you will use mostly asynchronous communication channels (email
and bug tracker), although we also use text-based chat and do plenty of video calls.

During non-pandemic times, some travel is expected, generally 2-4 times per
year, including the annual gathering of regular Tails contributors.

## Qualifications

- If you are part of a group that is under-represented in tech, we particularly
  encourage you to apply. We acknowledge that our community is not as diverse
  and equitable as we would like it to be. We understand that we are part of the
  problem. We want the Tails project to become more equitable.

- You can commit 25-35 hours per week on a long-term basis.
  The exact scope of your responsibilities will depend on how much
  you work within this range.

- You can work comfortably at least 3 hours during the peak of Tails activities:
  between 10:00 and 17:00 CEST/CET.

- Professional experience organizing team collaboration.

- Experience participating in groups that value transparency, autonomy, and
  horizontal decision-making.

- Group and inter-individual communication skills demonstrated, for example, by
  experience facilitating collective processes.

- Conceptual understanding of software development work.

- Enthusiastic about our [[mission and values|contribute/mission]], motivated by social impact.

- Some experience working fully remote, primarily with asynchronous communication.

- Good written and spoken English communication skills.

Additionally, although that's optional, we would love it if you had experience
participating in Free and Open Source Software communities.

## Compensation and benefits

Pay scale is 40-100 k€ per year, including medical coverage.
The exact number depends solely on:

 - How much time you work
 - Your tax situation
 - Cost of medical coverage

On top of this, Tails pays for:

 - Exceptional health expenses not covered by your policy
 - Computer equipment
 - Travel expenses to work events

<a id="apply"></a>

How to apply
============

Send an email to <tails-accounting@boum.org>.

<style>
.apply-portfolio, .apply-contributions { display: none; }
</style>

[[!inline pages="jobs/apply" raw="yes" sort="age"]]
