[[!meta title="Improve Tails documentation"]]

<div id="intro">

<p>Tails documentation would greatly benefit from your help.</p>

[[!toc levels=2]]

</div>

Good documentation is difficult to keep up-to-date. If you find a typo
or an error in the documentation please let us know — ideally, by
submitting a patch with your correction.

# Find a task

The documentation on the website is not freely editable. The way we
document things has serious security implications. People should be able
to trust the Tails website as much as they trust Tails itself.
Furthermore, every change in the documentation possibly breaks the
translations that were made of the previous version.

But there are still many ways you can start contributing:

  - We maintain a list of
    [[!tails_gitlab groups/tails/-/issues?label_name%5B%5D=T%3AEnd-user+documentation
    desc="documentation tasks"]].
    You can start writing a draft in the corresponding issue and then
    [[ask us for review|contribute/merge_policy]].

  - Small fixes and enhancements to the current documentation are
    greatly welcome. This can be done by sending Git patches to
    [[tails-dev@boum.org|about/contact#tails-dev]] or by sending
    us a [[Merge Request|contribute/merge_policy#submit]].
    In general, documentation changes should be based on the `master` branch.

We recommend you to [[build an offline version of the
documentation|contribute/build/website]] to test your contributions
before sharing them with us.

# Guidelines and style

- [[Documentation style guide|style_guide]]
- [[Checklist for writing release notes|release_notes]]

# Related pages

  - [[Configuration of the production website|contribute/how/website/production]]
  - [[Translating Tails|contribute/how/translate]]

# Talk to us

You can subscribe to [[tails-dev@boum.org|about/contact#tails-dev]],
our development mailing list.

If you need input and don't know who to ask, mention `@sajolida`
on the corresponding GitLab issue.
