[[!meta title="Lucas, May 2022"]]

**Can you tell us a bit about who you are and what you do?**

I'm a filmmaker and art teacher in Mexico.

Since I was a child, my father gave me access to computers and I've
found them fascinating. I started using the family computer at the age
of 4 on Windows 95 and MS-DOS, then got into videogames and digital
movie editing.

Computers were key in my discovery of cinema, art, and science, which
are my main interests and the basis of my work and activism.

**How did you discover Tails and what do you use it for?**

I started working on a feature film about today's electronic
surveillance, which is backed by our government because it's convenient
for them.

Looking for alternatives, I came to Free Software, Linux, Tor, the
Cypherpunk Manifesto, etc.

From there, I learned about alternative operating systems: Ubuntu,
Qubes, and then Tails. I'm rediscovering a bit of this feeling from when
I was a child: exploring, learning, trying things out, etc.

**What do you use Tails for?**

I wanted to use Tails daily: to prepare for my classes, to work on the
scripts for my movie, etc. For me, protecting my scripts from Windows or
Word spying on my computer was most important. Free Software was the
solution to make sure that I was in control of the computer. I feel
safer in my creative work.

I really connected with the metaphor of Tails as a camping tent: a safe
space where I could develop my creativity.

**How often have you used Tails?**

For about 1 week.

Then, I noticed that the 3 drives on which I installed Tails were all
giving an error in Windows. I haven't tried to start Tails from these
drives since the error by lack of time.

Maybe it's Windows destroying my drives on purpose.

I get an error message asking to reformat when I plugged the drives in
Windows and I try to open them. I don't get this reformatting message
when I try to plug it in Ubuntu, only on Windows.

I would expect to see the EXE files from Tails when I open these drives
in Windows, like when I open a Ubuntu drive on Windows.

I tried to reformat these drives several times and install Tails again,
but the installation program wouldn't detect the drive anymore.

I was plugging these drives into Windows to check which was which
because I didn't mark them physically. I wonder why the error only shows
up on the drives with Tails.

Next, I want to try to reinstall Tails on these drives using Ubuntu and
see what happens. To me, it seems like these bastards are doing
something...

*Note: In the end, the USB sticks were fine but the error message in Windows
was confusing to Lucas. See [[!tails_ticket 18700]].)*

**What did you like about Tails during these few days when you used
it?**

- The minimalist interface. I'm fed up with the thousands of
  notifications of Windows, the popups, news, ads, weather apps, etc.

  I like that everything was a bit square. It felt like the 90's,
  without so many animations and things. Tails has this aesthetic
  clarity, like in video games where aesthetics support clarity,
  playability, and understanding of what you are doing.

  For example, the cursor goes above the different elements without
  animations or that you can only see one thing at a time and not
  multiple layers of windows. 

- The color scheme from Tor. It makes me feel like I'm inside Tor. The
  simple fact that my computer is connected to the Internet encrypts all
  my communication.

  Internet is a bit slower, but not as slow as in the 90's and that's
  fine.

- The preinstalled programs. I didn't know some of the applications but
  it made me feel like trying them out.

  A few things were missing for me (Telegram, Brave, VLC, etc.) and I
  wondered whether it was possible to install them. I didn't get a
  chance to try this yet.

- Installing was very easy. It would be too hard for me if the
  installation required coding like for Ubuntu, but I was surprised how
  easy it was to install Tails.

**What is it that you didn't like from Tails?**

- That it takes a while to connect. I understand that this is part of
  the encryption and will get better over time.

- I would like to edit movies from Tails and install other programs, but
  I haven't tried this yet.

**What do you think is the biggest problem to Tails being adopted by
less technical people?**

First, because the powers that be (governments, companies, capitalist
lobbies, etc.) have created an environment that prevents them from
seeing and using alternatives. For example, the seductiveness and
convenience of Mac.

Second, education. I was lucky enough that my father told me about
Linux, but in school, we were only taught how to use a few Windows
applications.  Nowadays, computers are everywhere in schools, but it's
still all Google Meet, Windows, and Excel.
