[[!meta title="Rafael, May 2022"]]

**Can you tell us a bit about who you are and what you do?**

I'm an activist and I organize workshops about digital security for
grassroots organizations in Mexico City.

I studied computer science for some years. I've always been interested in
computers and Free Software in particular.

I participate in events organized by the Free Software community in
Mexico City, but my activism is on other topics, student events and
human rights in particular.

**How did you discover Tails and what do you use it for?**

I discovered Tails some years ago in a digital self-defense guide from
Tactical Tech.

I use Tails to organize events with my collective. We use Inkscape in
Tails to create the graphics and flyers, also to publish the activity on
blogs or over email.

We decided to use Tails to avoid leaving traces of these activities on
our computers. We generate the documents from Tails and export them after
erasing the metadata. We also rely on Tails to hide our location when we
publish on blogs.

We don't think that such a high level of security is necessary for the
kind of events that we organize, but we're interested in having a better
security culture in general. For example, when we organize a workshop
about PGP, even if the workshop is public, we organize it from Tails.

It's a policy of the entire collective to do this effort. I use Tails
about once a month.

**What do you like the most in Tails?**

The fact that it is Free Software distribution that is live. It's very
convenient to use on any computer and not necessarily on a dedicated or
very recent one.

The integration of the Metadata Anonmization Tool makes it easy to clean
metadata from images and other files.

**What do you think needs to be improved in Tails?**

We sometimes had problems using the data persistence. It's been hard to
configure for some new users. The learning curve is longer.

For example, people think that they configured the data persistence
already and can use it, but then realize that they didn't, and have to
configure it again. It was not clear enough for them whether the data
persistence was already activated or not.

Sometimes automatic upgrades are not available on some USB sticks that
are very outdated. But we can solve this easily with a manual
installation of the last version.

Other than that, it's good that each upgrade explains the changes and
why. The frequency of upgrades is good. Downloading is easy. 

For me, these are the 2 main pitfalls, but they are easy to solve.

**What do you think is the biggest problem to Tails being adopted by more
activists?**

In terms of interest in the tool, many people don't think that using
Tails is necessary in their context. Maybe because they think that it's
too complicated, sometimes before they even try it. Tails could explain
better why it's important to limit the traces on your computer.

In terms of technicalities, how to start Tails once it's installed on a
USB stick. On some computers, how to select to boot from USB is more
difficult than on others. Especially on Windows, which gets started very
quickly and there is no time to enter the BIOS or the Boot Menu.

I teach people how to either enter the Boot Menu when starting or
configure the laptop to always boot from the USB stick. I know the UEFI
options screen of Windows and use to troubleshoot computers, but I'm more
familiar with the Boot Menu key.

**Who do you know who really needs Tails but is not using it yet?**

A collective of lawyers and some journalists.

They know that they are spied upon and surveilled in the Mexican context.
Still, sometimes they think that they have nothing to hide and are not
interested in using such tools for their work.

To change this, workshops are a good opportunity to raise awareness. The
Tails website explains well who can benefit from Tails and these people
could identify with these use cases. Maybe Tails needs more outreach as
well.

**What if these people didn't have to restart the computer to use
Tails?**

It would make the starting process easier, and more people would use it.
But other users might find it more suspicious since they would still be
inside the other operating system and didn't restart on Tails.

I'm also not sure how easy it would be for users to start Tails in a
virtual machine.
