[[!meta title="Community Health team"]]
[[!meta robots="noindex"]]

[[!toc levels=1]]

Primary task
============

Help improve the health of the community by caring for the emotional and social
sustainability of the project on the long term. This team has a reproductive
scope, is auxiliary to the Tails project, and can be assigned tasks by the
project.

Main functions
==============

The scope of activities presented below is wide and exceeds the current
capacity of the team. The listed activities should, thus, be mapped to concrete
goals and prioritized, according to the project's needs.

- Promote training and discussions about relevant topics (such as diversity,
  decision making, active listening, etc).
- Serve as reference for the process of handling conflicts and code of conduct.
  issues inside the Tails group.
- Facilitate sessions or conduct certain activities when Tails Board asks.

Examples of training activities:

- Send articles about community diversity, inclusion, feminism, consensus, etc.
  (Links every month → Food for thought)
- Workshop on topics: working together, active listening, nonviolent.
  Communication, conflict resolution, etc. (Once a year, at least)
- Learn and train about decision making methods chosen by Tails as a whole.
- Learn about conflict resolution.
- Conduct community analysis (eg. SWOT), to improve comunity health and strategy.

Examples of conflict handling activities:

- Help with internal dynamics (workers, Board and Assembly), and the nearer
  community (other contributors).
- Code of conduct related:
  - serve as an external contact
  - create and improve the response process
- Define a procedure of resolution of conflicts (training, point of contact)

Examples of methodological support:

- Conduct periodical meetings (yearly at least).
- Support to facilitate summit sessions or other challenging topics.
- Clarify the dynamics of decision in case of disagreements.

Fundamental organizational relationships
========================================

The group writes to the mailing list of the General Assembly and can promote
activities about diversity, inclusion, feminism, consensus method, etc.

The team meets the Tails board to speak about issues or conflicts reports. The
team can be contacted by the Tails board or by the General Assembly or by
single people inside of Tails to address some issues.

External Relations
==================

Answer CoC reports when used as a point of contact (Once the team is able to
fulfill this role).

Necessary and useful skills and competences
===========================================

English spoken and written, mediation and facilitation skills, possibility of
evaluation of different point of views, study active listening, stay up-to-date
with feminism and developing of social justice.
