[[!meta title="Fundraising team"]]
[[!meta robots="noindex"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

Responsibilities
================

The Fundraising team is responsible for 4 main activities: Sponsors, Donations,
Grants and Monthly Reports. They all imply cultivating contacts by sending news
about Tails achievements, plans and needs, and participating to events where
these contacts are.

Sponsors
--------

Sponsors are listed on: https://tails.boum.org/sponsors/.

 - Replying to sponsorship requests, finding new sponsors, seeking donation
   renewal, updating the sponsors page, sending T-shirts.

Donations
---------

 - Carrying out the annual donation campaign
    - Adding a banner on our website, writing blog posts, and tweeting
    - Sending a request for renewal to past donors
    - Communicating with the fiscal sponsors receiving donations, to monitor
      the donations
    - Analyzing the donation campaign

 - Improving the donation process
   - Donation forms and webpages, working sometimes with external contractors
     to create visuals
   - Developing means to evaluate the effects of the modifications: A/B
     testing, survey, etc.

 - Replying to donors' requests for information, receipt.


Grants
------

 - Looking for grants and funding opportunities selecting acceptable sources of
   funding, in doubt ask the Board
 - Identifying match between the grant/donation/contract and Tails roadmap
   items, and making sure we do not deviate from the Tails roadmap and
   prioritize the needs of our users and not our funders
 - Prioritizing grants opportunities, based on Tails needs and capacities.
 - Applying to grants with the support of other teams (Accounting about
   finances, Foundations about workers availability, etc.) and sometimes other
   projects such as Tor
   - Writing the grant: narrative, budget
   - Submit the grant
   - Follow-up: communication with grants and funds organizations and Tails
     members who will implement the grant

We're sometimes low in capacity and might not be able to chase all
possible grants. The person responsible for grants in the team tries to
ask for help from the rest of the team when they deem that it would be
worth chasing a grant but they can't do it themselves.

Monthly Reports
---------------

Every month we create a report containing highlights from the internal team
reprts plus whatever other work contributors would like to include.

Keep in mind that these reports are targeted at the other Tails contributors,
people contributing to related projects, expert users, and Tails advocates, so
they can be useful, for example, to:

- Give others a quick overview of what we are doing and where our work
  can be found.
- Get help or feedback from others.
- Give a sense of the very diverse contributions that are valuable to
  the project and encourage more people to join in.
- Show off how cool we are!

See [[!tails_blueprint monthly_report desc="the corresponding blueprint"]] for
information about how to do it.

Tools
=====

Team mailing list
-----------------

Fundraising Team members are on the tails-fundraising@boum.org Schleuder mailing list.

We want to answer sponsors and donors within 2-3 days, especially for
the first contact. The other people in the team should take over the
first contact if the person responsible for the sponsors or donors is on
holidays or doesn't answer within 2-3 days.

GitLab project
--------------

The team uses a [private GitLab
project](https://gitlab.tails.boum.org/tails/fundraising) for tasks and issues.

Contact
-------

To get in touch with the Fundraising Team, you can:

 - write to: tails-fundraising@boum.org ([[OpenPGP key|tails-fundraising.key]])

 - mention @fundraising-team on GitLab: GitLab will send an email notification about it to every member of the Foundations Team, and add it to their To-Do list.
