[[!meta title="Translation platform maintainers"]]
[[!meta robots="noindex"]]

The general mission of these maintainers is **to make sure that [[Tails
translators|contribute/how/translate]] can translate our website easily,
while not compromising the safety of the rest of the Tails ecosystem**.
We maintain the translation platform, but **not the actual translations**.

If you want to comment on a problem with a specific
translation, please contact
[[tails-l10n|https://tails.net/contribute/how/translate/#follow-up]].

If you have a problem with the platform itself, we encourage you to check [the
list of open
issues](https://gitlab.tails.boum.org/groups/tails/-/issues?scope=all&state=opened&label_name[]=C%3ATranslation%20Platform)
and open a new one if your problem is not already described there. Please make
sure to add details such as the date and time you experienced the issue, the
relevant URL, and other details that may help us find and/or reproduce your
problem.

**Responsibilities of the whole team**:

* Manage the budget for this team.
* Keep track of upcoming big changes (e.g. Weblate dropping support for the
  database we are using, or gaining extra non-trivial dependencies) and plan
  the work we will have to do to adjust.
* Refine, update and document the translation workflow.
* Report about the team to the rest of Tails.
* Monitor error messages (Weblate, server, integrations).
* Engage with translators in [[tails-l10n|about/contact#tails-l10n]] (re.
  translation-related issues) and [[tails-weblate|about/contact#tails-weblate]]
  (re. service-related issues).

**Service maintenance responsibilities**:

* Maintain and upgrade Weblate.
* Maintain and improve the integration with the Tails website.
* Maintain and improve the generation of the staging website.
* Make implementation and design decisions (proposals made by most active maintainers who committed to work on this on the long term should not be blocked by other folks).
* Keep the [[technical design documentation|contribute/design/translation_platform]] up-to-date.
* Implement backend changes needed for the translation workflow.
* Fix crashes in the whole setup.
* Give clear and quick feedback for questions about the service's
  maintenance, technical improvements, etc, so that the whole team and
  also the translators are properly informed about possibilities, decisions
  and expected timeline.

**Community management responsibilities**:

* Act as an interface between translators and the rest of Tails, via public communication channels.
* Facilitate the process of adding new languages for translation:
  * Introduction of new language teams if no Tails translator takes the lead.
  * Final, more technical review when new languages are deemed ready (make sure
    that the new language does not break the website).
* Drive the process to remove unmaintained languages if needed.
* Hear feedback from translators, facilitate these discussions until they reach
  a conclusion, and report to upstream when needed.
* Grant reviewer permissions (following our [[documented process|contribute/how/translate/with_translation_platform/]]).
* Maintain documentation for translators.

# Resources

 - [[design documentation|contribute/design/translation_platform]]
 - [[operations documentation|translation_platform/operations]]
 - [[documentation for translators|contribute/how/translate/with_translation_platform]]
