[[!meta title="Automated ISO/IMG builds and tests on Jenkins"]]
[[!meta robots="noindex"]]

[[!toc levels=1]]

Configuration
=============

- master:
  * [[!tails_gitlab tails/puppet-jenkins/-/blob/master/manifests/init.pp
    desc="`jenkins` class"]]
  * [[!tails_gitweb_puppet_tails manifests/jenkins/master.pp
    desc="`tails::jenkins::master` class"]]
  * a few Jenkins plugins installed with `jenkins::plugin`
  * YAML jobs configuration lives in a
    [[!tails_gitweb_repo jenkins-jobs desc="dedicated Git repository"]];
    [Jenkins Job Builder](https://docs.openstack.org/infra/jenkins-job-builder/)
    uses it to configure Jenkins
- slaves:
  * [[!tails_gitweb_puppet_tails manifests/iso_builder.pp
    desc="`tails::iso_builder`"]],
    [[!tails_gitweb_puppet_tails manifests/jenkins/slave.pp
    desc="`tails::jenkins::slave`"]],
    [[!tails_gitweb_puppet_tails manifests/jenkins/slave/iso_builder.pp
    desc="`tails::jenkins::slave::iso_builder`"]],
    [[!tails_gitweb_puppet_tails manifests/jenkins/slave/iso_tester.pp
    desc="`tails::jenkins::slave::iso_tester`"]],
    and [[!tails_gitweb_puppet_tails manifests/tester.pp
    desc="`tails::tester`"]]
    classes
  * signing keys are managed with the `tails_secrets_jenkins` Puppet module
- web server:
  * [[!tails_gitweb_puppet_tails manifests/jenkins/reverse_proxy.pp
    desc="`tails::jenkins::reverse_proxy` class"]]

<a id="upgrade-policy"></a>

Upgrade policy
==============

Here are some guidelines to triage security vulnerabilities in Jenkins
and the plugins we have installed:

1. Protecting our infra from folks who have access to Jenkins

   → Upgrading quarterly is sufficient.

2. Protecting our infra from attacks against folks who have access to Jenkins

   For example, XSS that could lead a legitimate user to perform unintended
   actions with Jenkins credentials (i.e. root in practice).

   → We should stay on top of security advisories and react more quickly than
   "in less than 3 months".

3. Protecting our infra from other 3rd-parties that affect Jenkins' security

   For example, say some Jenkins plugin, that connects to remote services, has
   a TLS certificate checking bug. This could potentially allow a MitM to run
   arbitrary code with Jenkins orchestrator or workers permissions, i.e. root.

   → We should stay on top of security advisories and react more quickly than
   "in less than 3 months".

Upgrade steps
=============

- Preparation:
  - [ ] Go through the [changelog](https://www.jenkins.io/changelog/), paying attention to changes on how agents connect to controller, config changes that may need update, important changes in plugins, etc.
- Deployment:
  - [ ] Take note of currently running builds before starting the upgrades.
  - [ ] Deploy Jenkins upgrade to latest version available using Puppet.
  - [ ] Generate a list of up-to-date plugins by running [[this Groovy script|contribute/working_together/roles/sysadmins/Jenkins/1.generate-plugins-list.groovy]] in [[the Jenkins Script Console|https://jenkins.tails.boum.org/script]]. Make sure to update the initial list containing actively used plugins if there were changes.
  - [ ] Generate updated Puppet code for `tails::jenkins::master` using [[this Python3 script|contribute/working_together/roles/sysadmins/Jenkins/2.generate-puppet-code.py]] and the output of the above script.
  - [ ] Deploy plugin upgrades using the code generated above.
  - [ ] Restart all agents.
  - [ ] Manually run the Update jobs script (may be needed so XML is valid with current Jenkins):
    ```
    sudo -u jenkins /usr/local/sbin/deploy_jenkins_jobs update
    ```
- Wrap up:
  - [ ] Go through warnings in Jenkins interface.
  - [ ] Manually remove uneeded plugins from /var/lib/jenkins/plugins.
  - [ ] Restart builds that were interrupted by Jenkins restart.
  - [ ] Update the [[Jenkins upgrade steps documentation|https://tails.net/contribute/working_together/roles/sysadmins/Jenkins#upgrade-steps]] in case there were changes.
  - [ ] Schedule next update.

Agent to controller connections
===============================

These are the steps a Jenkins agent does when connecting to the controller:

1. Fetch connection info from `http://jenkins.lizard:8080` (see the `tails::jenkins::slave` Puppet class).
2. Receive the connection URL `https://jenkins.tails.boum.org` ("Jenkins URL", manually configured in [Configure System](https://jenkins.tails.boum.org/configure)).
3. Resolve `jenkins.tails.boum.org` to `192.168.122.1` (because of libvirt config).
4. Connect using HTTPS to `jenkins.tails.boum.org:443`.
5. Learn about port `42585` (fixed "TCP port for inbound agents", manually configured in [Configure Global Security](https://jenkins.tails.boum.org/configureSecurity/)).
6. Finally, connect using HTTP to `jenkins.tails.boum.org:42585`.

For those steps to work, the following configuration exists outside of Jenkins VMs:

- Firewall rules in Lizard to forward agents traffic to `www.lizard`:
  - `192.168.122.1:80` → `www.lizard:1180`
  - `192.168.122.1:443` → `www.lizard:11443`
  - `192.168.122.1:42585` → `www.lizard:42585`
- Nginx configs in `www.lizard` to reverse proxy traffic to `jenkins.lizard`:
  - `www.lizard:1180` → `jenkins.lizard:80`
  - `www.lizard:11443` → `jenkins.lizard:443`
  - `www.lizard:42585` → `jenkins.lizard:42585`

What could be improved:

- Ports 1180/80 are probably not needed in the configs above.
- Port 42585 could be directly forwarded to `jenkins.lizard` as it's not TLS protected.

Generating jobs
===============

We generate automatically a set of Jenkins jobs for branches that are
active in the Tails main Git repository.

The first brick extracts the list of active branches and output the
needed information:

 - [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/usr/lib/python3/dist-packages/tailslib/git.py]]
 - [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/usr/lib/python3/dist-packages/tailslib/jenkins.py]]

This list is parsed by the `generate_tails_iso_jobs` script run by
a cronjob and deployed by our [[!tails_gitweb_repo puppet-tails]]
`tails::jenkins::iso_jobs_generator` manifest.

This script output YAML files compatible with
[jenkins-job-builder](http://docs.openstack.org/infra/jenkins-job-builder).
It creates one `project` for each active branch, which in turn uses
several JJB `job templates` to create jobs for each branch:

 - `build_Tails_ISO_*`
 - `reproducibly_build_Tails_ISO_*`
 - `test_Tails_ISO_*`

This changes are pushed to our [[!tails_gitweb_repo jenkins-jobs]] git
repo by the cronjob, and thanks to their automatic deployment in our
`tails::jenkins::master` and `tails::gitolite::hooks::jenkins_jobs`
manifests in our [[!tails_gitweb_repo puppet-tails]] repo, these new
changes are applied to our Jenkins instance.

Passing parameters through jobs
===============================

We pass information from build job to follow-up jobs (reproducibility
testing, test suite) via two means:

 - the Parameterized Trigger plugin, whenever it's sufficient

 - the EnvInject plugin, for more complex cases:

   * In the build job, a script collects the needed information and
     writes it to a file that's saved as a build artifact.
   * This file is used by the build job itself, to setup the variables it
     needs (currently only `$NOTIFY_TO`).
   * Follow-up jobs imported this file in the workspace along with the
     build artifacts, then use an EnvInject pre-build step to load it
     and set up variables accordingly.

# Builds

See [[contribute/working_together/roles/sysadmins/automated_builds_in_Jenkins]].

# Tests

See [[contribute/working_together/roles/sysadmins/automated_tests_in_Jenkins]].
