[[!meta title="Manual test suite"]]

[[!toc levels=1]]

<div class="caution">
Read this document from the branch used to prepare the release.
</div>

Changes
=======

Packages
--------

Compare the list of bundled packages and versions with the one shipped last
time. The new `.packages` file should have been attached to the
call for testing email sent by the Release Manager.

	/usr/bin/diff -u \
	    wiki/src/torrents/files/tails-amd64-3.1.packages \
	    tails-amd64-3.2.packages \
	    | wdiff --diff-input  --terminal

Check the output for:

- new packages that may cause harm or make the images unnecessarily
  big
- packages that were erroneously removed
- new versions of software we might not have audited yet

Image size
----------

Check the images size has not changed much since the last release.

In a directory with many Tails ISO and USB images:

    find \( -iname "tails*.iso" -o -iname "tails*.img" \) \
	     -type f -exec ls -l --block-size=M '{}' \; | sort -rhk 5

<a id="reproducibility-final-check"></a>

Reproducibility
===============

⚠ Wait until the Release Manager removes this warning.

This section can **not** be done by the RM.

0. Check that the <https://tails.boum.org/contribute/calendar/>
   documents who is the _Trusted Reproducer_ for this release.
   If this is not the case, ask the RM (this is the only exception
   to "do not trust anything said by the RM about this process").

1. Download the ISO and USB images.

2. Clear-sign the hashes of all products using your OpenPGP key
   and gzip the output (otherwise the signed text could be mangled
   at some point in the email chain):

        DEST_DIR=$(mktemp -d)
        sha512sum *.iso *.img \
          | gpg --clear-sign \
          | gzip \
          > "$DEST_DIR/TR-bits.gz"

3. Locate the file generated by the command above. To display its location,
   execute the following command:

        echo "$DEST_DIR/TR-bits.gz"

4. Send the aforementioned generated file as an attachment
   to the _Trusted Reproducer_.

5. If the _Trusted Reproducer_ is around, ask them:

    - if they've received your email
    - if they could successfully decompress the attachment
    - if they could check the inline signature of the attachment once decompressed
    - if the signed text contains all the information they need

Automated test suite
====================

Point `--old-iso` to the ISO image of the previous stable release.

See:

 - [[automated test suite documentation|test/automated_tests]]
 - [[test/setup]]
 - [[test/usage]]

Tor Browser
===========

Miscellaneous functionality
---------------------------

* Test if _uBlock_ works:
  - The _uBlock_ icon must be visible.
  - Visit a website that normally displays ads, such as
    <https://www.nytimes.com/>. The ads should not be displayed and
    the uBlock icon should display a strictly positive number of
    blocked elements.

Security and fingerprinting
---------------------------

1. In Tails' Tor Browser, visit `about:config`. Check that
   `media.peerconnection.enabled` is set to `false`.

2. [Download](https://torbrowser-archive.tails.boum.org/?C=M&O=D) the version of Tor
   Browser included in the Tails release you are testing.

3. Start that Tor Browser on a non-Tails Linux.

4. Compare the fingerprint of that Tor Browser with the one of
   Tails' Tor Browser, using *Test your browser*
   on <https://coveryourtracks.eff.org/>.

   To see the details we're interested in, scroll down to check *Detailed results*
   and click on *Detailed view*.

   - The exposed User-Agent should match the latest Tor Browser's one.
   - Ignore the result of the "blocking tracking ads" and "blocking
     invisible trackers" tests, which seem unreliable (we've seen
     different results for the very same version of Tor Browser).

5. If the fingerprints differ, ask the Release Manager
   to update the *Browser fingerprint* section of the
   [[known issues|support/known_issues]] page.

<a id="Thunderbird"></a>

Thunderbird
===========

Only perform this test if one of these conditions is met:

 - We're testing a release candidate, such as Tails 7.42~rc1.
 - The release under testing upgrades to a major Thunderbird version.
   For example, the last Tails release shipped Thunderbird 87.9, and the one
   you're testing includes Thunderbird 88.1.

To check that the EHLO/HELO SMTP message is not leaking anything
at the application level:

1. Start Thunderbird using the GNOME Applications menu.
2. Configure the outgoing SMTP server for an email account
   so it uses STARTTLS on port 587
   (Thunderbird will send two EHLO/HELO: one before TLS is
   initiated; one after; the assumption here is that Thunderbird will
   send the same both times).
3. Run `sudo tcpdump -n -i lo -w dump.pcap` while sending an email to
   capture the packets before Tor encrypts it, then close
   tcpdump. Note that the packet containing EHLO/HELO will be sent
   really early, so even if the email failed (e.g. because the mail
   server doesn't support plaintext SMTP on port 587) we are ok.
4. Check the dump for the HELO/EHLO message and
   verify that it only contains `127.0.0.1`:
   `sudo tcpdump -A -r dump.pcap | grep EHLO`

WhisperBack
===========

* I should be able to send a bug report with WhisperBack.
* When we receive this bug report on the tails-bugs mailing list,
  Schleuder tells us that it was sent encrypted.

Virtualization support
======================

* Test that Tails starts and the browser launches in VirtualBox.

  Hint: VirtualBox works inside a KVM virtual machine.

<a id="incremental-upgrades"></a>

Incremental upgrades
====================

⚠ Wait until the Release Manager removes this warning.

(automate: [[!tails_ticket 18004]])

1. Install _from scratch_ on a USB stick the previous Tails stable release
   (that is, at this time, the current published one).
   A system that was upgraded to that version will not do.

2. Start from that USB stick.

3. Set an administration password in the Welcome Screen.

4. Upgrade to the version we're testing:

        sudo sh -c 'sed -i /^TAILS_CHANNEL=/d /etc/os-release &&
                    echo TAILS_CHANNEL=\"test\" >> /etc/os-release' && \
        systemctl --user restart tails-upgrade-frontend.service

5. Connect to Local Network and to Tor

6. Once the upgrade has been applied and you're suggested to restart Tails,
   do that.

7. In the Welcome Screen, enable the Unsafe Browser.

8. Verify that the resulting, upgraded system "works fine":

   * it boots
   * it pretends to be the correct version
   * Tor works fine
   * Tor Browser works fine
   * the Unsafe Browser starts

Torrents
========

Make sure that the .torrent files we advertise for this release can be
used to download the *full* images:

* ISO

* USB image

Real (non-VM) hardware
======================


UEFI boot
-----------

Note that for emergency releases, we do not always optimize the ordering
of files in the SquashFS, which might make them boot somewhat slower.

On a 64-bit computer that has Secure Boot enabled and that is configured to
prefer UEFI:

1. Freshly install the version of Tails being tested to a USB stick.
2. Boot this USB stick on bare-metal a first time to trigger re-partitioning.
   - You should see the "GNU GRUB" title, as opposed to a syslinux menu.
   - Wait until you see the Welcome Screen.
3. Boot this USB stick a second time, measuring the boot time (from the
   GRUB menu until the GNOME desktop is ready -- quickly press
   ENTER in the Welcome Screen). Take note of the boot time you measured.
4. Go through steps 1-3 again, but this time using the previous Tails version.
   Use the same computer and the same USB stick.
5. Compare the boot times you measured at steps 3 and 4.
   Expected result: the new Tails should not be significantly slower to start
   than the old one.

BIOS boot
-----------

On a computer configured to prefer legacy BIOS boot:

1. Freshly install the version of Tails being tested to a USB stick.
2. Boot this USB stick on bare-metal a first time to trigger re-partitioning.
   You should see the "SYSLINUX" title in the bootloader, as opposed to GRUB.
3. Boot this USB stick a second time.
4. You should see the Welcome Screen appear.

Misc
====

* Check that the output of `sudo journalctl` looks OK.
  For a quick overview, something like `sudo journalctl -p 0..3` can be helpful.
