[[!meta title="Trusting Tails"]]

Trust is hard. It is why security is difficult in every field,
including computers and Internet communication. For Tails to work for you,
you have to know whether you can trust it and us, its developers.
Do you think we have planted backdoors in Tails so we can control your
computer or that we make Tails generate compromised encryption keys
to help the government to spy on you? We do not and we would never,
as a core principle of [[our social contract|about/social_contract]].
We've written this page, however, to help you make an informed decision
about whether you should trust our software.

Whatever you think, you should ask yourself how you
reached your conclusion. Both trust and distrust should be
based on facts, not gut feelings, paranoid suspicion, unfounded hearsay,
or our word (ideally, you should try to verify the information
we've provided here). Of course, we claim to be honest but
that shouldn't be enough on its own. You can look at the bigger picture of Tails,
our affiliations, and whether others trust us to help make your decision.

[[!toc levels=2]]

<a id="free_software"></a>

Free software and public scrutiny
=================================

Free software, [[like Tails|about/license]], helps users to check
examine a software distribution and see how it functions,
since the source code must be made available to everyone.
A thorough audit of source code can reveal if any malicious code, like a backdoor,
is present. With the source code, users can build the software and
compare the result against any distributed version,
like the Tails images that you can download from us.
That way, users can determine whether our distributed
versions are actually built with our published source code or if any malicious
changes have been made.

There is a strong tradition within the free software community to publicly report
serious issues that are found within software. Of course, most people do not
have the knowledge, skills or time required to do this. But thanks to public scrutiny,
anyone can have a degree of trust in free software, as long as it is
popular enough that other developers test its source code.

Trusting Tails
==============

Tails is the union of Debian and Tor. What we do,
essentially, is gluing it all together. If you trust Debian and
Tor, all that is left is whether you trust our "glue".
Tails is free software, so its source code is open for inspection,
and it mainly consists of a specification for which Debian software packages to
install and how they should be configured.

While Tails doesn't
get the same amount of attention as Debian or Tor, we do have eyes on us,
especially from the Tor community and the general security community
(see our [[audits page|security/audits]]).
Given that Tails' source code is comparably small and devoid of
complexities, we're in a good spot compared to many projects of similar nature.
Our [[specification and design document|contribute/design]] is a good starting
point for understanding how Tails works.

Trusting Tor
============

Tails anonymity is based on Tor, which is developed by [[The Tor
Project|https://www.torproject.org/]]. The development of Tor is under
a lot of public scrutiny by both academics (research on attacks and
defenses on onion routing) and engineers (The Tor code has gone
through several external audits, and many independent developers also
read through its source code). Security issues have been reported,
but nothing malicious like a backdoor—we think that only conspiracy theorists speculate
about deliberate backdoors in Tor these days. Tor's
distributed trust model also makes it hard for a single entity to capture
an individual's traffic and effectively identify them.

<a id="trust_debian"></a>

Trusting Debian GNU/Linux
=========================

The vast majority of all software shipped in Tails comes from the
[[Debian GNU/Linux distribution|https://www.debian.org/]]. Debian is
arguably the Linux distribution whose software packages are under
the deepest public scrutiny. Not only is Debian itself one of the largest
Linux distros, but it's also one of the most popular distros to make
derivatives from. Ubuntu Linux, for instance, is a Debian derivative,
and the same goes transitively for all of its derivatives, like Linux
Mint. Thus there are countless people using Debian's software
packages, and countless developers inspect their integrity.
Serious security issues have been discovered (like the infamous
[[Debian SSH PRNG vulnerability|https://lists.debian.org/debian-security-announce/2008/msg00152.html]]),
but backdoors or other types of intentionally placed security holes
have never been found to our knowledge.
