[[!meta title="VirtualBox"]]

It is possible to run Tails in a virtual machine using [<span
class="application">VirtualBox</span>](https://www.virtualbox.org/) from a
Windows, Linux, or macOS host operating system.

[[!inline pages="doc/advanced_topics/virtualization.caution" raw="yes" sort="age"]]

<span class="application">VirtualBox</span> has a free software version,
called <span class="application">VirtualBox Open Source Edition</span>
and some proprietary components, for example to add support for USB
devices.

<div class="caution">

<p>For security reasons, we recommend you to use only the
<i>Open Source Edition</i>, though it does not
allow use of a Persistent Storage.</p>

</div>

<!--

XXX: VirtualBox Guest Additions has been removed since Tails 4.27. Without
Guest Additions, the shared folders feature of VirtualBox is unavailable.
Until Guest Additions is added back (#18728), the tip below shouldn't be
displayed.

<div class="tip">

<p>With the <a href="https://www.virtualbox.org/manual/ch04.html#sharedfolders">
<span class="guilabel">shared folders</span></a> feature of
<span class="application">VirtualBox</span> you can access files of your
host system from within the guest system.</p>

<p>Make sure to understand the security implications of [[accessing
internal hard disks|internal_hard_disk]]
from Tails before using this feature.</p>

</div>

-->

Security considerations for Windows and macOS
=============================================

In our [[security warnings about
virtualization|virtualization#security]] we recommend to run Tails in
a virtual machine only if the host operating system is trustworthy.

<div class="caution">

<p>Microsoft Windows and macOS being proprietary software, they cannot be considered
trustworthy. Only run Tails in a virtual machine on Windows or macOS for testing
purposes and do not rely on it for security.</p>

</div>

Installation
============

To install *VirtualBox* in Debian or Ubuntu, execute the following
command:

    sudo apt install virtualbox

For instructions on how to install *VirtualBox* on other operating
systems, refer to the [VirtualBox documentation](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/End-user_documentation).

Running Tails from an ISO image
===============================

1. [[Download Tails as an ISO image|install/download-iso]], instead of a USB image.

1. Start *VirtualBox*.

To create a new virtual machine:

  1. Choose **Machine**&nbsp;▸**New...**.

  1. In the **Name and operating system** screen:

     1. Specify:

        - A name of your choice
        - **Type**: **Linux**
        - **Version**: **Other Linux (64 bit)**

     2. Click **Next**.

  1. In the **Memory size** screen:

     1. Allocate at least 2048 MB of RAM.

     2. Click **Next**.

  1. In the **Hard drive** screen:

     1. Choose **Do not add a virtual hard drive**.

     1. Click **Create**.

     1. Click **Continue** in the warning dialog about creating a virtual
	machine without a hard drive.

To configure the virtual machine to start from an ISO image:

  1. Select the new virtual machine in the left pane.

  1. Choose **Machine**&nbsp;▸ **Settings...**.

  1. Select **System** in the left pane.

  1. In the **Extended Features** section of the **Motherboard** tab, make
     sure that **Enable I/O APIC** is enabled.

  1. Select **Storage** in the left pane.

  1. Select **Empty** below **Contoller IDE** in the **Storage Tree**
     selection list in the right pane.

  1. Click on the **CD** icon on the right of the window and select **Choose a
     virtual CD/DVD disk file...** to browse for the ISO image you want to
     start Tails from.

  1. Check the **Live CD/DVD** option.

  1. Click **OK**.

To start the new virtual machine:

  1. Select the virtual machine in the left pane.

  1. Click **Start**.

<div class="bug">

<p><i>VirtualBox Guest Additions</i> has been removed since Tails 4.27. As a
result:</p>

<ul>

<li><p>The
<a href="https://www.virtualbox.org/manual/ch04.html#guestadd-intro">shared clipboard</a>
feature of <i>VirtualBox</i> is unavailable.</p></li>

<li><p>The screen resolution of Tails can't be changed by resizing the
virtual machine window in the host OS. The screen resolution must be changed
from inside Tails.</p>

<p>To change the screen resolution from inside Tails, choose
<b>Applications&nbsp;▸ System Tools&nbsp;▸ Settings&nbsp;▸ Displays&nbsp;▸ Resolution</b>.</p>

<p>You might also need to adjust the virtual machine window in the host OS to
fit the new screen resolution.</p></li>

</ul>

<p>We plan to add back <i>VirtualBox Guest Additions</i> in a future version
of Tails. See [[!tails_ticket 18728]].</p>

</div>
