[[!meta date="Mon, 24 May 2022 12:34:56 -0000"]]
[[!meta title="Serious security vulnerability in Tails 5.0"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag security/fixed]]

*Tor Browser* in Tails 5.0 and earlier is unsafe to use for sensitive
information.

**We recommend that you stop using Tails until the release of 5.1 (early June) if
you use *Tor Browser* for sensitive information (passwords, private messages,
personal information, etc.).**

A security vulnerability was discovered in the JavaScript engine of *Firefox*
and *Tor Browser*. See the [Mozilla Foundation Security Advisory
2022-19](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/security/advisories/mfsa2022-19/)

This vulnerability allows a malicious website to bypass some of the security
built in *Tor Browser* and access information from other websites.

For example, after you visit a malicious website, an attacker controlling this
website might access the password or other sensitive information that you send
to other websites afterwards during the same Tails session.

This vulnerability doesn't break the anonymity and encryption of Tor
connections.

For example, it is still safe and anonymous to access websites from Tails if
you don't share sensitive information with them.

After *Tor Browser* has been compromised, the only reliable solution is to
restart Tails.

Other applications in Tails are not vulnerable. *Thunderbird* in Tails is not
vulnerable because JavaScript is disabled.

The *Safest* [[security level of *Tor
Browser*|doc/anonymous_internet/Tor_Browser#security-level]] is not affected
because JavaScript is disabled at this security level.

This vulnerability will be fixed in Tails 5.1 (early June), but our team doesn't
have the capacity to publish an emergency release earlier.
