[[!toc levels=4]]

# Introduction

As a live system designed to not leave any trace of its use on a 
computer, Tails doesn't store any user data and configuration by 
default. To still be able to use Tails without re-configuring all 
used apps after each boot, Tails supports storing some 
explicitly selected configuration and data persistently on an encrypted
volume.

# Requirements
Allow users to easily set up an encrypted volume and configure which 
data and configuration should be stored persistently on the encrypted 
volume.

# Design

Technical overview:
* Encrypted (LUKS) volume on the Tails device
* Configuration file containing source paths and destination paths
* Files are either bind-mounted or linked via symlinks
* Hooks are executed on activation / deactivation 

Components:
* A privileged backend: A D-Bus activated systemd service which exposes 
  an API via the D-Bus system bus
* A GTK app which uses the API to allow the user to easily set up and
  configure the Persistent Storage
* A command-line tool and shell library to allow other components of
  Tails to easily use the API to configure the Persistent Storage

# XXX
* Setup and configuration is done via the `Persistent Storage` app
* 
* User can choose which data and configuration (features) to 
  store persistently from a pre-configured list 
* In addition, users can make arbitrary files persistent by editing
  a config file manually

  pre-configured list of  which files and directories 
* Files and directories which are made persistent are copied to the 
  Persistent Storage
* Files and directories are 

# Implementation

## Backend
The backend is implemented as a D-Bus activated systemd service using
the D-Bus system bus. It exposes two interfaces:

```
<interface name='org.boum.tails.PersistentStorage'>
    <method name='Quit'/>
    <method name='Create'>
        <arg name='passphrase' direction='in' type='s'/>
    </method>
    <method name='ChangePassphrase'>
        <arg name='passphrase' direction='in' type='s'/>
        <arg name='new_passphrase' direction='in' type='s'/>
    </method>
    <method name='Delete'/>
    <method name='Activate'/>
    <method name='Unlock'>
        <arg name='passphrase' direction='in' type='s'/>
    </method>
    <property name="State" type="s" access="read" />
    <property name="Error" type="s" access="read" />
    <property name="IsCreated" type="b" access="read"/>
    <property name="IsUnlocked" type="b" access="read"/>
    <property name="BootDeviceIsSupported" type="b" access="read"/>
    <property name="Device" type="s" access="read"/>
    <property name="Job" type="o" access="read"/>
</interface>
```

and

```
<interface name='org.boum.tails.PersistentStorage.Feature'>
    <method name='Activate'/>
    <method name='Deactivate'/>
    <property name="Id" type="s" access="read"/>
    <property name="IsActive" type="b" access="read"/>
    <property name="Job" type="o" access="read"/>
</interface>
```


Use Cases
=========

What can be made persistent?
----------------------------

Here are the use cases that are of interest for our users and we want
to support.

### Application-specific configurations

This is relevant for the following applications:

- Tor Browser bookmarks (`/home/amnesia/.mozilla/firefox/bookmarks`)
- Printer configuration (`/etc/cups`)
- Network configuration (`/etc/NetworkManager/system-connections`)
- Tor bridge configuration (`/var/lib/tca`)
- Electrum configuration and data (`/home/amnesia/.electrum`)
- Thunderbird configuration and data (`/home/amnesia/.thunderbird`)
- GnuPG configuration and keys (`/home/amnesia/.gnupg`)
- Pidgin configuration and OTR keys (`/home/amnesia/.purple`)
- SSH client configuration and key (`/home/amnesia/.ssh`)

A tool (`tails-persistence-setup`) helps the user to choose exactly
what files/directories should be persistent. With such a general
solution the above things don't have to be implemented individually,
and are instead present as default suggestions in the tool, and
advanced users with uncommon requirements can do whatever they want so
we don't hear them nagging all the time.

Stuff we don't want to actively support making persistent:

- web browser addons (while we don't want to make it impossible to
  install addons, we think it's a really bad idea, and won't actively
  support it, since it partitions the Tails users anonymity set, thus
  having bad consequences both on people who do it *and* on others)

### User data store

A persistent non-home data store for whatever random files the user
wants to have persistent. This is the `~/Persistent/` directory.

### Additional software packages

If a user needs software that is not included in Tails by default it can be
quite annoying to fetch the APT information and download it (slow over
Tor) every time. Therefore, APT packages lists and cache can easily be
made persistent. It's also possible to store in the Persistent Storage a list of
additional software packages to be automatically reinstalled on boot.

Persistence storage location
----------------------------

The Tails Persistent Storage is a LUKS-encrypted GPT partition, labeled
`TailsData`, stored on a removable storage device.

Specifications
==============

Once a Persistent Storage is enabled, changes to persistent files are saved.

Moreover:

* Read-write access to the Persistent Storage is not the default: it
  requires a voluntary user action such as unlocking the Persistent
  Storage in the Welcome Screen.
* The Persistent Storage uses strong, well-known, Free
  Software, peer-reviewed encryption tools (`dm-crypt` and LUKS)
* Fixed storage devices are be blacklisted by default from the search
  for a Persistent Storage. Rationale: preventing the risk of using
  a malicious Persistent Storage seems more important than supporting
  the rare "I want to store my Persistent Storage on a fixed hard-disk"
  use-case.

Current state of things
=======================

Tails 0.11 and greater supports the **persistent application-specific
configurations** and **persistent user data store** usecases.

Implementation
==============

Backend
-------

Debian Live already supports several kinds of persistence, including
snapshots of selected files and persistence store automounting, both
at the `$HOME` and system-wide levels. LUKS persistent volumes
are supported.

Neither home automounting nor `live-snapshot` currently fit the
application-specific configuration persistence use case. Both because
they are not finely grained enough and persist too much.

That's why we have decided to:

* [generalize overlays](http://live.debian.net/devel/rfc/persistence/)
  (`*-rw`) to handle arbitrary directories, not just `/` and `/home`,
* add a "linkfiles" (inspired by [Joey Hess'
  dircombine](http://git.kitenet.net/?p=joey/home.git;a=blob;f=bin/dircombine))
  option to create symlinks from the root of a non-persistent
  directory (e.g. `$HOME`) to regular files stored in
  a persistent location (e.g. `.gitconfig`, `.vimrc`, etc.)

The code we ship lives in our [[live-boot Git repository|contribute/git]].

### Example

Example `live.persist` configuration file:

	# destination       options
	/var/cache/apt
	/home/amnesia       linkfiles,source=dotfiles

This will result in:

* `$MEDIA/apt` is bind-mounted onto `/var/cache/apt`
* `/home/amnesia/` contains symlinks to every file in `$MEDIA/dotfiles`

User interface
--------------

### bootstrap persistent storage

A *Configure persistent storage* menu entry is the entry point to the
*bootstrap persistent storage* UI. This UI allows the user to set up
a Persistent Storage in the free space left on the USB stick
by [[Tails Installer|installation]].

Choosing persistence is something *activelly* opt-in, i.e. "I want
this, I read the documentation for related information, then run the
setup tool", rather than something we throw to the face of every user
who did not think of it herself.

This UI is called `tails-persistence-setup` and its code lives in its
own [[contribute/Git]] (gbp-style) repository.

#### Design

Setting up a Persistent Storage means:

* detect the device Tails is running from
* error out if not running from USB
* error out unless Tails was installed using Tails Installer (i.e.
  unless it's running from a GPT partition labeled `Tails`)
* error out if the device Tails is running from already has
  a Persistent Storage
* ask the user an encryption passphrase (welcome bonus: pointing to
  the relevant documentation about choosing a *strong* passphrase)
* create a LUKS-encrypted partition on the Tails USB stick
  - uses all the free space left by Tails Installer
  - labeled `TailsData`
  - create a filesystem in the encrypted container
  - give ownership on the filesystem to the default Tails user
* explain the user how/when/why to run the *configure which bits are
  persistent* UI

* **How/when to run?** Initially, we wanted to do so on first boot.
  However, to detect if a given Tails
  system is booting for the first time or not, every first boot must
  change something on the Tails system partition. We don't
  want to do this, hence the `tails-persistence-setup` will be run
  from the Applications menu by users who decide they want a Persistent
  Storage.

* **Storage location**: To keep the GUI and documentation simple, we
  only support setting up a Persistent Storage *on the USB stick Tails
  is running from*. **Note**: the underlying tools (live-boot backend,
  tails-greeter) will support storage on whatever relevant device,
  though; moreover, `tails-persistence-setup` actually knows how to
  set up a Persistent Storage on arbitrary devices, thanks to command-line
  options. Therefore, brave and advanced users can prepare their store
  their persistent data wherever they want, but this is not something
  we will actively support and document beyond the bare minimum
  (`--help` and manpage).

* **Filesystem** to create on the encrypted storage container: `ext3`
  looks like the safe bet. The default `ext3` journalling mode only
  journals metadata, not data, so the impact of journalling on Flash
  drives should be pretty minor.  Also, we could not find
  a [[!wikipedia Flash file system]] with mature enough support for
  block devices: they are rather targeted at raw access to
  MTD devices.

* **Integration with other configuration steps**: it seems doable to
  have `tails-persistence-setup` host both the *bootstrap persistent
  storage* and *configure which bits are persistent* user interfaces
  in a wizard-like way. The current code provides the foundations to
  do so, and the menu entry is called *Configure persistent storage*.
  One may call it using multiple `--step` options, and the UI will
  present every step sequentially; currently, the only implemented
  steps are `bootstrap`, `configure` (that implements the *configure
  which bits are persistent* UI) and `delete`.

* **Programming language**: written in Perl, i.e. the language the one
  of us who wrote it is the most efficient at.

* Partition / filesystem / LUKS management is done using `udisks`; the
  [[!tails_ticket 5820 desc="udisks bug wrt.
  partition attributes"]]
  is workaround'ed.

### Configure which bits are persistent

This is automatically run right after the Persistent Storage bootstrap
step. The user is enabled to change the configuration later.
Changes to the Persistent Storage settings are taken into account at next boot.

#### Design

* either the Persistent Storage is currently unlocked in read-write mode, and thus
  the persistence partition is already mounted; or the user is
  directly coming from bootstrap, and then we must mount the partition
  ourselves
* by default, set up a linkfiles-enabled persistent
  `${HOME}/dotfiles`, preconfigured to have its contents symlinked
  into `$HOME`.
* apart of this, let's consider non-directories persistence an
  advanced feature: to start with, and possibly forever, this could
  only be configured by manually editing live-persist file
* a few **presets** are made available (e.g. `~/.gnupg/`);
  technically, each of these has a name, optionally a short
  description and icon, and the needed information to make a simple
  directory persistent (e.g. make `/home/amnesia/.gnupg` persist,
  as the "gnupg" sub-directory of the persistent volume).
  The GUI
  displays every available preset, along with its current
  (enabled/disabled) status and available details (description, icon).
  tails-persistence-setup has means to
  merge its presets list with the configuration read from the input
  configuration file; to this end, it knows if a given preset
  is enabled in the input configuration file;
* by default, the current configuration is displayed as a list of
  items (= config lines); listed items may be toggled on/off; an *Add
  custom* button allows to enter custom source, destination (and
  comma-separated list of options?)

### Unlock the Persistent Storage at boot time

Choosing between various persistence modes is one of the reasons why
we've written a graphical [[!tails_ticket 5528 desc="boot menu"]]:
the [[!tails_ticket 5496 desc="Welcome Screen"]] (aka. *tails-greeter*).

#### Design

* asks whether to unlock the Persistent Storage at all;
* ask list of possibly valid Persistent Storages to `live-persist`
* initial implementation (MVC -speak): the model (`live-persist` and
  tails-greeter code that runs it) supports enabling multiple
  Persistent Storages, but the view (tails-greeter GUI) only
  supports *one* Persistent Storage
* ask LUKS passphrase, deals with errors
* for a given Persistent Storage, it's all or nothing: all bits of
  persistence configured in its `live.persist` are to be set up
* runs `live-persist` to set up persistent data where it belong
* pass information to the user session (at least
  `tails-persistence-setup` needs information) through shell variables
  set in `/var/lib/gdm3/settings/tails.*`

backend / tails-greeter interface
---------------------------------

### Long story short

0. The user chooses to unlock the Persistent Storage in the Welcome
   Screen, aka. `tails-greeter`.
0. `tails-greeter` asks `live-boot` the list of possibly valid
   Persistent Storages.
0. For each such volume, `tails-greeter` asks the user to enter the
   passphrase or to skip it, and tries to unlock. `tails-greeter`
   deals with error catching, retrying, etc. as appropriate.
0. `tails-greeter` asks `live-boot` to set up persistence (at least
   custom mounts and linkfiles), passing it the list of volumes that
   were successfully unlocked.

### Interfacing

A `live-persist` script shall be written, implementing each kind of
`tails-greeter` to `live-boot` communication as a sub-command, such
as:

	live-persist [OPTIONS] list [LABEL]...
	live-persist [OPTIONS] activate VOLUME...

`live-persist` will report success and failure as any other
well-behaved synchronously-called shell script, that is: with
appropriate exit codes and `STDERR`.

### Possibly valid Persistent Storages

In our case, that is quite simple: it means removable LUKS encrypted
filesystem, stored on GPT partitions labeled `Tails-persistence` (or
similar, must be decided upon taking into account technical
restrictions such as what GPT supports).

This means we need to:

* make sure we can pass this desired label to `live-boot`, probably on
  the kernel command-line along with other parameters

In other (non-GPT) usecases, generally, it would be filesystems
labeled with `live-rw` or `home-rw`, but if they're on encrypted
device, then `live-boot` has to unlock the parent device them to see
the label; also, in non-Tails usecases, any encrypted filesystem may
contain a `*-rw` file, and must be unlocked to know too; so any
encrypted device may be a valid Persistent Storage that is worth
passing to `tails-greeter`; . `live-persist` will support non-Tails
usecases on a best-effort basis, leaving room for improvement in case
other developers want to add support for their preferred usecases.

### Asking live-persist to set up persistence

To start with, we've factored out only the custom mounts part from the
main `live-boot` script; it depends on factoring out other kinds of
persistence (e.g. all types of unionfs-style filesystems) first.

<a id="additional-software-packages"></a>

Additional software packages
----------------------------

The `tails-additional-software` script installs a list of
additional software packages stored in the Persistent Storage.
For details see [[additional_software_packages]].

<a id="security"></a>

Security
--------

The root directory of the Persistent Storage is created
by the persistence configuration assistant, owned by `root:root`, with
permissions 0770. It is group-writable so that we can grant write access
to other users with ACLs.

Additionally, ACLs grant, on this directory:

* full (`rwx`) access to the `tails-persistence-setup` user, so that it can edit the
  persistence configuration;
* search (`x`) access to the `amnesia` user, so that it can follow the symlinks
  generated by the dotfiles feature.

The persistence configuration assistant is run with password-less sudo
as the `tails-persistence-setup` dedicated user. It creates and
updates a configuration file called `persistence.conf`, that is owned
by `tails-persistence-setup:tails-persistence-setup`, with permissions
0600 and no ACLs. It refuses to read configuration files with
different permissions.

`live-persist` checks these permissions on the root directory of the
Persistent Storage, on `persistence.conf` and on
`live-additional-software.conf`. Then, `live-persist` disables every
such file, and refuses to set up any feature of the Persistent Storage, if the
Persistent Storage has wrong permissions. It also disables every such
file that has wrong permissions itself.

Migration from pre-0.21 Persistent Storage
------------------------------------------

Before Tails 0.21, the Persistent Storage and its configuration file had
weaker permissions. An attacker who could run arbitrary code as the
desktop `amnesia` user could tamper with the persistence
configuration, and — with some minimal amount of imagination — give
themselves persistent root credentials, etc.

A migration process, available in Tails 0.21, allowed users to move to
the new setup relatively safely and (in most cases) very easily.
This migration code was removed in Tails 0.22.

Still, after login, if some settings are found that were not fully
migrated, or never migrated at all (i.e.
if `live-additional-software.conf.disabled`, `live-persistence.conf`
or `live-persistence.conf.old` is found), a desktop notification makes
the user aware of it, and points them to the migration
documentation so that they can
learn how to migrate their configuration.
