[[!meta title="Time synchronization"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

# Introduction

Tor will not bootstrap if the system clock is too incorrect,
and then Tails is effectively useless for networking:

 - Direct connection or regular bridge: circa ±24 hours time skew is acceptable;
   beyond that, Tor won't bootstrap.

 - obfs4 bridge: the system clock just has to be off by a few hours for
   `obfs4proxy` to become completely unable to connect to obfs4 bridges.

   That problematic situation is quite common: certain operating systems
   (including Windows up to Windows 8 at least) set the hardware (BIOS) clock to
   the local time, and since Tails uses UTC (and assumes the BIOS clock is UTC),
   this becomes a problem for every user but those living in the
   GMT+0/UTC timezone.

It is therefore important for us to ensure that Tails somehow
automatically synchronizes the system time at start in a safe manner.

However, in the past our only automated time syncing mechanism (`htpdate`) used Tor, which made this a catch 22. We tackled this problem in 2 ways
that we describe below.

# Overview

In short this is how time syncing is performed when Tails starts:

0. If the user has consented to Tails initiating Internet activity without
   going through Tor, in order to help them connect to Tor, then
   Tails sets the clock from the network without going through Tor,
   piggy-backing on captive portal detection.

0. Start Tor.

0. If Tor can't connect, provide the user an opportunity to set the correct
   time and retry.

0. As soon as Tor works, run HTP (see below) through Tor to get a more correct
   system time.

A notification is shown while the whole process is running,
informing the user that
Tor may not function properly before it has finished (e.g. onion
services running Tor prior to version 0.2.3.7-alpha requires clients
to have a time that is no more than 30 minutes incorrect).

The hardware clock is not affected.

# Piggy-backing on captive portal detection

When the user consented to this, Tails piggy-backs on widespread captive portal
detection mechanisms in order to set the system clock from the network without
going through Tor.

For details, see the corresponding [[design
documentation|contribute/design/Tor_enforcement#time-sync]], which includes
a discussion about security and fingerprinting aspects of this mechanism.

# HTP

[HTP](http://www.vervest.org/htp/) is not really a protocol, but uses
a feature from HTTP, aka web traffic. According the specifications of
HTTP/1.1 (RFC 2616) a web server needs to put a timestamp in a
response to a web browser request. In web browsers you don't see the
HTTP headers, but these headers contain a timestamp in Greenwich Mean
Time (GMT), accurate in seconds.

These timestamps can be used to get a pretty good estimate of the
current time, even though not to the same accuracy level as NTP.

Being based on HTTP, HTP can use its ready-made features related to
server authentication, such as X.509 certificates... for the time
being.

## Why use a custom program?

As what follows clearly shows, the upstream HTP has quite a few
drawbacks that make it unfit for our needs. That's why Tails uses a
custom version of the Perl HTP client into
[[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/usr/local/sbin/htpdate]].
This script is maintained in [[!tails_gitweb_repo htp]].

For reasons detailed below, this version of htpdate uses
[[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/usr/local/bin/https-get-expired]],
its own implementation of an HTTPS client for all of its HTTP operations.

## Authentication of servers

The custom `/usr/local/sbin/htpdate` we use only connects to HTTPS servers,
and delegates certificate verification to `/usr/local/bin/https-get-expired`.

It also uses several different pools of time sources, and if there are too
many that fail for any given pool, e.g. because of failed certificate checking
or being unreachable, the pool is considered to be potentially compromised and
htpdate aborts.

`https-get-expired` is a simple HTTP client which performs the "typical" TLS
certificate verification, with an important difference: certificates whose
validity dates are in the future are considered to be valid. This is an important
detail. In fact, our clock might well be in the past! Not only due to hardware
problems (ie: the user's hardware clock is broken) but also because, if the
user is performing time sync before Tor is ready, an attacker could easily
modify this and set the user's clock in the past.
When this happens, htpdate could fail if it was performing the typical TLS
verification, because the "NotBefore" field could indicate that the
certificate validity starts in the future. This would leave the system clock
in the past, and allow an attacker to replay an old Tor consensus.

That's why, instead, we accept certificates regardless of their "NotBefore"
field, we are protected against this kind of attacks: tor will notice that its
consensus is outdated and will attempt to retrieve a newer consensus. Then, the
best the attacker can do is block that consensus retrieval, or replay an old
consensus again, that this time tor will reject as outdated. This is a denial of
service that such an attacker could do by merely blocking network
traffic anyway.

A more powerful adversary, who *also* got hold of (possibly old or future
versions of) TLS key pairs for at least 1 server in 2 of our 3 HTP pools, could
still force us to keep using the old Tor consensus that they control. We accept
this risk. Note that this attack would also work if they got hold of the key pair
for such a TLS certificate that'll become valid in the future: we have no
guarantee that Certificate Authorities never release certificates whose
"NotBefore" date is in the future (these could be useful for operational
reasons).

We don't need to ignore the "NotAfter" field: an attacker has no incentive in
setting our clock in the future.


## HTP source pools

What sources should be trusted? This is of course also a problem
with NTP.

The HTP pools used by Tails are based on stable and reliable
webservers that get great amounts of traffic. They are categorized
into three different pools according to their members' relationship to
the members in the other pools; any member in a one pool should be
unlikely to share logs (or other identifying data), or to agree to
send fake time information, with a member from
the other pools. The pools are as follows:

* The first pool lists websites run by groups that are likely to take great care
  of their visitors' privacy.
* The second pool lists websites run by entities which have a neutral relationship
  to both the members of the other pools.
* The third pool lists websites run by adversaries of the first pool members.

This design does not require that we particularly trust even members
of the first pool: what we need is to minimize the chance members of
different pools conspire together against Tails users.

The pools are listed in [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/etc/default/htpdate.pools]].

Basically, Tails `htpdate` picks three random servers (one from each pool),
and then build the median of the three advertised dates.

## Fingerprinting Tails users

Tails runs HTP through Tor, so the fingerprintability should be
limited to traffic flow only. It should be noted that HTP only fetches
the HTTP header, so fingerprinting based on the known traffic pattern
when fetching the full page of any of the members of Tails' HTP source
pools is not possible.

Tails developers still need to think thoroughly of these questions:
are such fingerprinting possibilities a serious problem? What kind of
efforts and compromise should be made to prevent these?

## Implementation

A Network Manager hook runs the whole thing:

 - [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/etc/NetworkManager/dispatcher.d/20-time.sh]]
 - [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/lib/systemd/system/htpdate.service]]

# Other aspects

The `hwclock.sh` initscript is disabled at reboot/shutdown time,
otherwise it would set the hardware clock to the system time,
violating (a strict interpretation of) our "don't leave traces on the
hardware being used" design goal:

* [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-patches/do-not-modify-hardware-clock.diff]]
* [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-hooks/52-update-rc.d]]
