[[!meta title="Tor network configuration"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

# Rationale

## Circumventing Tor censorship

Certain networks are restricted in ways that prevent Tor from
connecting properly without further configuration. Examples are:

* Egress port filtering (solved with `ReachableAddresses`).

* The Internet is only reachable via a proxy (solved with the `*Proxy`
  options).

* Tor is explicitly blocked (the Tor people like the term "censored"),
  which can be circumvented by using Tor bridges (solved with
  `UseBridges`, `Bridge`, and possibly `ClientTransportPlugin`).

## Trying to hide the fact one is using Tor

On the one hand, hiding the fact one is using Tor is often a side effect of
anti-censorship tools, such as Pluggable Transports: a censor who could detect
Tor usage could also block it. On the other hand, this is _not_ the threat model
for which anti-censorship tools such as Pluggable Transports are developed, so
understandably, Tor Browser decided not to advertize this property to its
users, and offers no guarantee in this respect.

Tails takes a different stance than Tor Browser on this topic: while Tor Browser
focuses on censorship circumvention, Tails _also_ aims to support other use
cases, in which the user needs to be aware that using Tor might be risky for
them. We want to help Tails users take this into account and choose a safer
option whenever possible. For example:

 - surveillance at home, at work, or at school, that alerts the user's
   adversaries about suspicious network activity

   This applies for example to one of our personas,
   [[Kim|contribute/personas/kim]], and to domestic violence situations.

 - regions where very few people use Tor, and the mere fact they're using Tor
   might be used to single them out as persons of interest and to locate them

Here's why we choose a different approach than Tor:

 - Generally speaking, Tails and Tor Browser complement each other by addressing
   different use cases and threat models. This is one of these cases: we believe
   Tails is making a greater difference by trying to better support users that
   Tor Browser won't.

 - When the user chooses not to try to hide the fact they're using Tor, we try
   our best to connect to Tor automatically. The way we do it may make it easier
   for an adversary to tell that the user is using Tails. For details, see our
   design documentation about [non-Tor
   traffic](contribute/design/Tor_enforcement). Since there are much fewer Tails
   users than Tor Browser users, this risk of detection matters even more in our
   case: identified Tails users may look more suspicious and would be easier to
   track down.

 - While we support Tor Browser's goal to fight against the narrative of Tor
   being for criminals or suspicious to use,
   we prioritize being pragmatic regarding the threats
   actually faced by our users in the world as it is today.

   Regardless of what the pervasive narrative around Tor becomes,
   abusive husbands might keep finding it suspicious that their partner or child is
   using Tor.

   We are confident this different stance of ours won't sabotage the Tor
   Project's efforts in this respect, because our impact on public discourse is
   so much smaller than theirs.

 - Even if we can't offer perfect protection against all possible adversaries, we
   are confident that we make our users safer against this threat at least
   against some adversaries that matter, such as abusive husbands who use less
   sophisticated, out-of-the-box network monitoring solutions such as
   parental control.

To achieve these goals, without over-promising the benefits of anti-censorship
tools, we're doing our best to keep ourselves up-to-date regarding the current
state of detection risks associated with the various ways to connect to Tor.
Accordingly, we are prepared to adjust the implementations offered to our users
when they choose to hide the fact they're using Tor. We are conscious that at
some point, we may have to temporarily or permanently disable this option,
because none of the available ways to connect to Tor offers a safety level
adequate to the situations we have in mind.

# Implementation

0. Tails sessions all begin with `DisableNetwork 1` in torrc so Tor will not
   connect to the network without user intervention.

0. The `tor` process is configured to not use the system resolver
   (which is `tor` itself ⇒ catch-22) but the DNS server obtained by
   NetworkManager instead. This enables the use of hostnames for
   proxies and pluggable transports (which is required for e.g. Meek).

0. When we connect to the network, a NetworkManager hook starts
   _Tor Connection_ in the background, i.e. non-blocking.

0. [[Time_syncing]] waits until tor has successfully bootstrapped before
   running. This waiting happens in systemd-land, not inside a NetworkManager
   hook.

Scripts:

* [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/usr/local/bin/tca]]

* [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/etc/NetworkManager/dispatcher.d/10-tor.sh]]
  (_Tor Connection_ is started here)

* [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/etc/NetworkManager/dispatcher.d/20-time.sh]]
  (Time syncing)

* [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/lib/systemd/system/tor@default.service.d/writable-etc-tor.conf]]
  and [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-patches/apparmor-adjust-tor-profile.diff]]
  (allow tor to modify its configuration)

## Tor Connection

_Tor Connection_ (sometimes nicknamed `tca`), is a graphical interface to
configure tor. Configuring tor is something that we consider to be a privileged
operation, because it can lead to deanonymization quite easily.

We want:
 - _Tor Connection_ to run as `amnesia`. This is required to nicely integrate
   with the desktop environment
 - the `amnesia` user not to be able to configure tor. ie: an attacker
   exploiting Tor Browser and able to run code as `amnesia`, cannot change tor
   configuration.
 - _Tor Connection_ to be able to configure tor
 - similarly, we want _Tor Connection_ to be able to keep some configuration
   and state files that the user has no permission to read
 - _Tor Connection_ to perform some specific action that require
   root privileges: changing the system date and time is one example of this.
   Those actions must not be permitted to the user outside of _Tor Connection_.

So that's what we do:
 - _Tor Connection_ is started in a dedicated, privileged, network namespace;
   this is needed to be able to reach onion-grater properly; see
   [[!tails_ticket 18123]]
 - `tca-portal` is run. This is a daemon that runs as root and runs specific
   commands if you can access its listening socket. The listening socket is a
   unix domain socket, and the permissions make it so that only root can connect
   to it.
 - before _Tor Connection_ is started, a wrapper that runs as root creates
   configuration/state files, applies restrictive permissions, and opens them.
   Those file descriptors are then passed to _Tor Connection_ using
   [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/usr/local/lib/connect-drop]].
   _Tor Connection_ will be able to read/write those files, while amnesia will
   not.
 - the same wrapper also opens a connection to `tca-portal`. This portal will
   perform specific privileged actions on behalf of _Tor Connection_.
   `connect-drop` is responsible for this, too

The code lives in:
 * [[!tails_gitweb_dir config/chroot_local-includes/usr/lib/python3/dist-packages/tca]]
 * [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/usr/local/bin/tca]]
 * [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/usr/share/applications/tca.desktop.in]]
 * [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/usr/local/lib/tca-portal]]
 * [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/lib/systemd/system/tca-portal.service]]
 * [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/lib/systemd/system/tca-portal.socket]]

### Why privileged network namespaces

The usage of _unprivileged network namespaces_ has been considered, but they
didn't seem appropriate to our requirements.

Let's suppose that we want the amnesia user to be able to enter a new network
namespace on its own. Then, what would prevent the attacker to do exactly the
same?
Unprivileged namespaces seem to be appropriate when your software wants to
drop permissions; here, we use network namespaces to become *more* privileged,
not less.

### Why connect-drop

Many programs implement the acquire-then-drop-privileges pattern on their own.
Connect-drop is a dedicated helper for this. Why so?

 - Reusability. Separating building blocks is always nice.
 - Easier audit. _Tor Connection_ is a big program, while `connect-drop` is a
   short script. Auditing it and testing it might be simpler.
 - Clearer definition of goal and threat model.
 - "Hidden" ways of gaining back privileges. Running `setuid` is not always
   enough; for example if you still have some file descriptor open, you can
   sometimes use that again for other purposes, violating the security goal.  Of
   course you can just be careful about it, but having one process that runs
   another defines more clearly what is passed from the first process to the
   second.
