[[!meta title="Configuring the Persistent Storage"]]

To configure the Persistent Storage, choose
**Applications**&nbsp;▸ **Tails**&nbsp;▸ **Persistent Storage**.

[[!toc levels=2]]

<div class="note">

<p>Only the features that are listed below can currently be made
persistent.</p>

<p>We are often asked to implement new features of the Persistent Storage: Tor
Browser preferences, Tor configuration, desktop background, mouse and touchpad
settings, and so on. See the [[!tails_gitlab
groups/tails/-/issues?scope=all&utf8=✓&state=opened&label_name%5B%5D=C%3APersistence
desc="list of issues about the Persistent Storage in our GitLab"]].<p>

</div>

Personal Documents
==================

<a id="persistent_folder"></a>

<div class="icon">
[[!img lib/apps/stock_folder.png link="no" alt=""]]
<div class="text"><h2>Persistent Folder</h2></div>
</div>

When the Persistent Folder feature is turned on, you can save your personal files and working
documents in the <span class="filename">Persistent</span> folder.

To open the <span class="filename">Persistent</span> folder, choose
<span class="menuchoice">
  <span class="guimenu">Places</span>&nbsp;▸
  <span class="guimenuitem">Persistent</span></span>.

The *Tor Browser* folder inside the *Persistent* folder is accessible from *Tor
Browser*. You must save your downloads or copy your uploads to this
*Peristent/Tor Browser* folder.

<div class="caution">

<p>The Persistent Storage is not hidden. An attacker in possession of your USB
stick can know that there is a Persistent Storage. Take into consideration that
you can be forced or tricked to give out its passphrase.</p>

</div>

System Settings
===============

<a id="welcome_screen"></a>

<div class="icon">
[[!img lib/apps/preferences-system.png link="no" alt=""]]
<div class="text"><h2>Welcome Screen</h2></div>
</div>

When the Welcome Screen feature is turned on, the settings from the
Welcome Screen are saved in the Persistent Storage: language, keyboard,
and additional settings.

To restore your settings when starting Tails, unlock your Persistent
Storage in the Welcome Screen.

<a id="printers"></a>

<div class="icon">
[[!img lib/apps/printer.png link="no" alt=""]]
<div class="text"><h2>Printers</h2></div>
</div>

When the Printers feature is turned on, the
[[configuration of the printers|doc/sensitive_documents/printing_and_scanning]]
is saved in the Persistent Storage.

Network
=======

<a id="network_connections"></a>

<div class="icon">
[[!img lib/apps/network-manager.png link="no" alt=""]]
<div class="text"><h2>Network Connections</h2></div>
</div>

When the Network Connections feature is turned on, the
[[password for Wi-Fi networks and configuration of wired networks|doc/anonymous_internet/networkmanager]]
are saved in the Persistent Storage.

<a id="bridge">

<div class="icon">
[[!img lib/apps/tor-connection.png link="no" alt=""]]
<div class="text"><h2>Tor Bridge</h2></div>
</div>

When the Tor Bridge feature is turned on, the last [[Tor
bridge|doc/anonymous_internet/tor]] that you used to connect to Tor
successfully is saved in the Persistent Storage.

Applications
============

<a id="bookmarks"></a>

<div class="icon">
[[!img lib/apps/user-bookmarks.png link="no" alt=""]]
<div class="text"><h2>Tor Browser Bookmarks</h2></div>
</div>

When the Tor Browser Bookmarks feature is turned on, changes to the bookmarks in
[[*Tor Browser*|doc/anonymous_internet/Tor_Browser]]
are saved in the Persistent Storage.

<a id="electrum"></a>

<div class="icon">
[[!img lib/apps/electrum.png link="no" alt=""]]
<div class="text"><h2>Electrum Bitcoin Wallet</h2></div>
</div>

When the Electrum Bitcoin Wallet feature is turned on, the bitcoin wallet and preferences of
the [[*Electrum* bitcoin client|anonymous_internet/electrum]] are saved in the
Persistent Storage.

<a id="thunderbird"></a>

<div class="icon">
[[!img lib/apps/thunderbird.png link="no" alt=""]]
<div class="text"><h2>Thunderbird Email Client</h2></div>
</div>

When the Thunderbird Email Client feature is turned on, the email, feeds, and OpenPGP keys in the
[[*Thunderbird* email client|doc/anonymous_internet/thunderbird]]
are saved in the Persistent Storage.

<a id="gnupg"></a>

<div class="icon">
[[!img lib/apps/seahorse-key.png link="no" alt=""]]
<div class="text"><h2>GnuPG</h2></div>
</div>

When the GnuPG feature is turned on, the OpenPGP keys that you create or import in *GnuPG* and *Kleopatra* are
saved in the Persistent Storage.

<div class="note">

<p>Since Tails 4.13 (November 2020), <em>Thunderbird</em> uses its own OpenPGP keyring,
different from the keyring used by <em>GnuPG</em> and <em>Kleopatra</em>. You don't need to enable the GnuPG
feature anymore if you only use OpenPGP encryption in
<em>Thunderbird</em>.</p>

</div>

<a id="pidgin"></a>

<div class="icon">
[[!img lib/apps/pidgin.png link="no" alt=""]]
<div class="text"><h2>Pidgin Internet Messenger</h2></div>
</div>

When the Pidgin Internet Messenger feature is turned on, all the configuration files of the
[[*Pidgin* internet messenger|doc/anonymous_internet/pidgin]]
are saved in the Persistent Storage:

- The configuration of your accounts, contacts, and chats
- Your OTR encryption keys and keyring

The content of the discussions is not saved, unless you configure *Pidgin* to
do so.

All the configuration options are available from the graphical interface of
*Pidgin*. You don't need to automatically edit or overwrite the configuration
files.

<a id="ssh"></a>

<div class="icon">
[[!img lib/apps/seahorse-key-ssh.png link="no" alt=""]]
<div class="text"><h2>SSH Client</h2></div>
</div>
    
When the SSH Client feature is turned on, all the files related to the Secure
Shell (SSH) client are saved in the Persistent Storage:

  - The SSH keys that you create or import
  - The public keys of the hosts you connect to
  - The SSH configuration file in <span class="filename">~/.ssh/config</span> 

Advanced Settings
=================

<a id="additional_software"></a>

<div class="icon">
[[!img lib/apps/package-x-generic.png link="no" alt=""]]
<div class="text"><h2>Additional Software</h2></div>
</div>

When the Additional Software feature is turned on, a list of
[[additional software|additional_software]] of
your choice is automatically installed every
time you start Tails.

The corresponding software packages are stored in the
Persistent Storage. They are automatically upgraded for security after
a network connection is established.

<div class="caution">

<p>The packages included in Tails are carefully tested for security.
Installing additional packages might break the security built in Tails,
so [[be careful with what you install|additional_software#warning]].</p>

</div>

<a id="dotfiles"></a>

<div class="icon">
[[!img lib/apps/preferences-desktop.png link="no" alt=""]]
<div class="text"><h2>Dotfiles</h2></div>
</div>

When the Dotfiles feature is turned on:

- All the files in the
  */live/persistence/TailsData_unlocked/dotfiles* folder
  are linked in the *Home* folder using Linux symbolic links.

- All the files in subfolders of
  */live/persistence/TailsData_unlocked/dotfiles* are also linked in the
  corresponding subfolder of the *Home* folder using Linux symbolic links.

- A shortcut is provided in the left pane of the *Files* browser and in the
  **Places** menu in the top navigation bar to access the
  */live/persistence/TailsData_unlocked/dotfiles* folder.

For example, having the following files in
*/live/persistence/TailsData_unlocked/dotfiles*:

    /live/persistence/TailsData_unlocked/dotfiles
    ├── file_a
    ├── folder
    │   ├── file_b
    │   └── subfolder
    │       └── file_c
    └── emptyfolder

Produces the following result in */home/amnesia*:

    /home/amnesia
    ├── file_a → /live/persistence/TailsData_unlocked/dotfiles/file_a
    └── folder
        ├── file_b → /live/persistence/TailsData_unlocked/dotfiles/folder/file_b
        └── subfolder
            └── file_c → /live/persistence/TailsData_unlocked/dotfiles/folder/subfolder/file_c

<div class="note">

<p>The Dotfiles feature only links specific files, and not entire folders, from
the Persistent Storage. Accordingly, empty folders are ignored, as shown in
the above example.</p>

</div>

On Tails and Linux in general, the name of configuration files often starts
with a dot and are sometimes called [[!wikipedia dotfiles]] for this reason.
The Dotfiles feature of the Persistent Storage makes it easy to persist such
"*dotfiles*", for example *~/.gitconfig* or *~/.bashrc*.

<div class="caution">

<p>Be careful if you use the Dotfiles feature to overwrite the default
settings.</p>

<p>The programs included in Tails are carefully configured with security in
mind. You can weaken your security if you change the defaults.</p>

<p>The anonymity of Tor and Tails relies on making it harder to distinguish one
Tails user from another. In some cases, changing the default settings can break
your anonymity.</p>

</div>

<a id="displays"></a>

### Save the configuration of your displays

If you have more than one display (for example, two monitors or a
projector), you can save the configuration of your displays using the
<span class="guilabel">Dotfiles</span> feature.

1. Turn on the *Dotfiles* feature and restart Tails.

1. Open the <span class="application">Settings</span> utility.

1. Choose <span class="menuchoice">
   <span class="guimenu">Devices</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guisubmenu">Displays</span></span>.

1. Configure your displays.

1. Choose **Places**&nbsp;▸ **Dotfiles**
   to open the <span class="filename">/live/persistence/TailsData_unlocked/dotfiles</span> folder
   in the <span class="application">Files</span> browser.

1. Click on the <span class="guimenu">[[!img lib/pan-down.png alt="menu toggle"
   class="symbolic" link="no"]]</span> button in the title bar and choose
   <span class="guilabel">Show Hidden Files</span>.

1. Create a folder called <span class="filename">.config</span>
   (<span class="filename">config</span> preceded by a dot).

1. Copy the <span class="filename">.config/monitors.xml</span> file from
   your <span class="filename">Home</span> folder to
   <span class="filename">/live/persistence/TailsData_unlocked/dotfiles/.config</span>.

Deleting the data corresponding to a feature
============================================

If you turn off a feature, it is unavailable after restarting Tails but the
corresponding data is still saved on the USB stick.

To delete the data corresponding to a feature:

1. When starting Tails, set up an [[administration
   password|doc/first_steps/welcome_screen/administration_password]].

1. In Tails, choose **Applications**&nbsp;▸ **System Tools**&nbsp;▸ **Root
   Terminal** to open a terminal with administration rights.

1. Execute the <span class="command">nautilus</span> command to open the
   *Files* browser with administration rights.

1. In the *Files* browser, navigate to */live/persistence/TailsData_unlocked*.

1. Delete the folder corresponding to the feature for which you want to delete the data:

   - **Persistent Folder**: *Persistent* folder
   - **Welcome Screen**: *greeter-settings* folder
   - **Printers**: *cups-configuration* folder
   - **Network Connections**: *nm-system-connections* folder
   - **Tor Bridge**: *tca* folder
   - **Tor Browser Bookmarks**: *bookmarks* folder
   - **Electrum Bitcoin Wallet**: *electrum* folder
   - **Thunderbird Email Client**: *thunderbird* folder
   - **GnuPG**: *gnupg* folder
   - **Pidgin Internet Messenger**: *pidgin* folder
   - **SSH Client**: *openssh-client* folder
   - **Additional Software**: *apt* and *apt-sources.list.d* folders and *live-additional-software.conf* file
   - **Dotfiles**: *dotfiles* folder
