[[!meta title="Creating the Persistent Storage"]]

To create the Persistent Storage, choose **Applications**&nbsp;▸
**Tails**&nbsp;▸ **Persistent Storage**.

When run for the first time, or after [[deleting a previous Persistent
Storage|delete]], an assistant allows you to create a Persistent Storage in the
free space left on the USB stick.

<div class="note">

<p>If you get the error message <i>Sorry, impossible to create a Persistent
Storage on this device</i>, you need to follow our instructions on [[installing
Tails on a USB stick|install]].</p>

<p>If you receive the error message while running Tails using
<i>virt-manager</i>, then you need to
[[run Tails from our USB image|doc/advanced_topics/virtualization/virt-manager#usb_image]]
instead of our ISO image.</p>

</div>

[[!img creation.png link="no" alt=""]]

1. Click **Continue** to start the creation assistant.

1. Type a passphrase of your choice in the **Passphrase** text box.

   <p>We recommend choosing a long passphrase made of 5 to 7 random words.
   <a href="https://theintercept.com/2015/03/26/passphrases-can-memorize-attackers-cant-guess/">Learn
   about the maths behind memorizable and secure passphrases.</a></p>

   <!-- Consider removing after #18736. -->

   <div class="caution">
   <p>It is impossible to recover your passphrase if you forget it!</p>

   <p>To help you remember your passphrase, you can write it on a piece of
   paper, store it in your wallet for a few days, and destroy it once
   you know it well.</p>
   </div>

1. Type again the same passphrase in the **Confirm** text box.

1. Click **Create Persistent Storage**.

   The creation process takes a few seconds.

<div class="next">

<p>After the creation is finished, you can start [[configuring your Persistent
Storage|configure]].</p>

</div>
