[[!meta title="Opening your Persistent Storage from another operating system"]]

Opening your Persistent Storage from another operating system can compromise
your security. For example, the other operating system might create thumbnails
of images or automatically index the content of the files in the Persistent
Storage.

There are currently no easy tools to open a Persistent Storage from Windows or
macOS anyway, so there is no risk of doing so by mistake.

If you plug your Tails USB stick into another Linux, you will probably be asked
to enter the passphrase of your Persistent Storage automatically, for example
in Debian or Ubuntu. Linux distributions generally include utilities to open
and create LUKS encrypted volumes, like the Persistent Storage, by default.

To exchange files between your Persistent Storage and another operating system,
store these files instead on a separate USB stick or external hard disk. You
can:

* [[Create an encrypted volume using
  *VeraCrypt*|encryption_and_privacy/veracrypt]] to store multiple files in a
  kind of encrypted folder or partition. *VeraCrypt* works on Windows, macOS,
  and Linux.

* [[Create an encrypted partition using
  LUKS|doc/encryption_and_privacy/encrypted_volumes]] to use an encrypted USB
  stick between Tails and another Linux system.

* [[Encrypt files using *Kleopatra*|encryption_and_privacy/kleopatra]].
  *Kleopatra* works on Windows and Linux, but not macOS.

* [[Delete securely the files|encryption_and_privacy/secure_deletion]] that you
  might have stored unencrypted.
