[[!meta title="Troubleshooting connecting to Tor"]]

The sections below summarize the most common problems when [[connecting to Tor|tor]].

[[!toc]]

<h2 id="clock">The computer clock is set to an incorrect time zone</h2>

The clock of the computer needs to be correct to connect to Tor.

If you choose to [[hide that you are connecting to Tor|tor#hiding]], you might
have to fix the clock manually if Tails fails to connect to Tor.

Choose **Fix Clock** in the error screen of the *Tor Connection* assistant to
set the clock and time zone of your computer.

If you have problems fixing the clock, you can instead try to restart Tails and
choose to [[connect to Tor automatically|tor#automatic]]. When connecting to
Tails automatically, Tails fixes the clock automatically by connecting to the
captive portal detection service of [Fedora](https://getfedora.org/) before
connecting to Tor.

<h2 id="portal">You need to sign in to the network</h2>

[[!inline pages="doc/anonymous_internet/unsafe_browser/captive_portal.inline" raw="yes" sort="age"]]

To sign in to a network using a captive portal:

1. Restart Tails.

1. When the [[Welcome Screen|first_steps/welcome_screen]] appears, click on the
   **[[!img lib/list-add.png alt="Add Additional Setting" class="symbolic" link="no"]]** button.

   [[!img first_steps/welcome_screen/additional.png link="no" alt=""]]

1. Choose **Unsafe Browser** in the **Additional Settings** dialog.

1. Select the **Enable the Unsafe Browser** option.

1. Click **Start Tails**.

1. Try connecting to the Tor network again using the *Tor Connection* assistant.

1. In the error screen of the *Tor Connection* assistant, choose **Try Signing in to the Network**.

1. In the warning, choose **Launch** to start the *Unsafe Browser*.

1. Follow the instructions on the homepage of the *Unsafe Browser*.

<h2 id="stuck">The progress bar gets stuck around 50%</h2>

When using a custom Tor obfs4 bridge, the progress bar of *Tor Connection*
sometimes gets stuck halfway through and becomes extremelly slow.

[[!img stuck.png link="no" alt=""]]

To fix this, you can either:

- Close and reopen *Tor Connection* to speed up the initial connection.

- Try a different obfs4 bridge.

<div class="bug">

<p>This issue only affects outdated obfs4 bridges and does not happen with
obfs4 bridges that run version 0.0.12 or later. ([[!tails_ticket 19173]])</p>

</div>

<h2 id="broken">The bridge is no longer operational</h2>

It is possible that the bridge that you entered is no longer working.

Try entering another bridge or requesting other bridges.

<h2 id="incorrect">You did not enter the bridge correctly</h2>

Only obfs4 bridges can be used in Tails currently.

An obfs4 bridge looks like:

    obfs4 1.2.3.4:1234 B0E566C9031657EA7ED3FC9D248E8AC4F37635A4 cert=OYWq67L7MDApdJCctUAF7rX8LHvMxvIBPHOoAp0+YXzlQdsxhw6EapaMNwbbGICkpY8CPQ iat-mode=0

You need to enter the entire line, not just the IP address and port
combination.
