[[!meta title="What we achieved together in 2022"]]
[[!meta date="Thu, 23 Nov 2022 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

**If a tool is hard to use, it is less secure.**

When digital security tools are too complicated to use, people make mistakes
that compromise their security or simply give up and fall back on more
dangerous practices.

Because journalists and whistleblowers use Tails to expose abuse of power and
activists use Tails to defend human rights and our planet, the more people use
Tails, the better we are all protected.

In 2022, we focused on making it easier to install Tails and improving many
existing features, instead of adding new features. Here are some highlights.

Our work is only possible thanks to the donations of our many supporters. In
2020&ndash;2022, [[donations from passionate people like you|donate]]
represented 76% of our income. This is the best proof of the value of our work
and our biggest motivation.

Thanks!

[[!toc levels=2]]

# Better tools

## *Persistent Storage*

The biggest change is still to come as we will release a complete redesign of
the Persistent Storage in Tails 5.8 (December 20). You can already test the new
Persistent Storage in [[Tails 5.8~beta1|test_5.8-beta1]].

The Persistent Storage hadn't changed much since its first release in 2012
because the code was hard to modify and improve. But, we learned from users
that the Persistent Storage could do a lot more for you if it had more features
and was easier to use.

The new Persistent Storage won't require restarting after creating it or each
time you activate a new feature.

It will also make it easier for us to persist more settings in the future.

And finally, it looks so much better!

[[!img test_5.8-beta1/create.png link="no" alt=""]]

[[!img test_5.8-beta1/features.png link="no" alt=""]]

## PGP tools

We know that lots of our users depend on PGP tools to protect their
communications. But, we also know that PGP tools are notoriously hard to use.

We made 2 big changes to PGP tools in Tails:

- We added [[*Kleopatra*|doc/encryption_and_privacy/kleopatra]], a swiss army
  knife for all things PGP.

  *Kleopatra* replaced the *OpenPGP Applet* and the *Password and Keys*
  utility, also known as *Seahorse*, which were not actively developed anymore
  and had many issues.

  [[!img version_5.0/kleopatra.png alt="" link="no"]]

- We updated *Thunderbird* to 102, which includes major usability improvements
  to the OpenPGP feature.

  When composing an email, you can now see whether it will be encrypted or not.
  If encryption is impossible, a key assistant helps you solve key issues.

  [[!img version_5.5/thunderbird_102.png link="no" alt="Thunderbird composer
  window with encryption turned on and notification about a missing key and how
  to resolve the issue."]]

## *Tor Connection* assistant

We conducted usability tests of the *Tor Connection* assistant in France and
Brazil with people who were new to Tails to identify issues in complicated
cases: when connecting to Tor is blocked by censorship or a captive portal.

We fixed [28 usability issues](https://gitlab.tails.boum.org/tails/tails/-/issues/?sort=closed_desc&state=closed&label_name%5B%5D=C%3ATor%20Connection&first_page_size=20)
identified during these tests. For example:

- The *Tor Connection* assistant now automatically fixes the computer clock if
  you choose to connect to Tor automatically. This makes it much easier for
  people in Asia to circumvent censorship.

- We made it easier to open the *Unsafe Browser* to sign in to a network. This
  makes it much easier to use Tails on public networks in airports, libraries,
  and so on.

- In Tails 5.8 (December 20), you will be able to scan a QR code from your
  phone to enter a Tor bridge:

  [[!img test_5.8-beta1/qr_code.png link="no" alt=""]]

## *Unsafe Browser* and Wayland

Tails 5.8 will also make the *Unsafe Browser* both safer and easier to use by
migrating it to the Wayland display technology.

Wayland brings more security in-depth to Tails by making it harder for a
compromised application in Tails to compromise or misuse another application.

Wayland also fixes other features that were not working yet in the *Unsafe
Browser*:

- Sound
- Uploads and downloads
- Alternative input methods for Chinese and other non-Latin languages
- Accessibility features like the screen reader and virtual keyboard

## Metadata cleaning

We added *Metadata Cleaner*, a new tool to clean metadata from your files.

[[!img version_5.7/metadata_cleaner.png link="no" alt=""]]

When we switched to *MAT* 0.8.0 in Tails 4.0, *MAT* lost its graphical
interface and was only accessible from the contextual menu of the *Files*
browser. It became especially hard for new users to learn how to clean their
files. *Metadata Cleaner* fixes this by providing a simple and easily
discoverable graphic interface to remove metadata.

*Metadata Cleaner* works on the same file formats and is as secure as *MAT*
because *Metadata Cleaner* also uses *MAT* in the background to do the actual
cleaning.

## Backups

We added a utility to make a backup of the Persistent Storage to another Tails
USB stick.

[[!img version_4.25/backup.png link="no" alt=""]]

It's pretty basic. We still want to do something better in [[!tails_ticket
7049]], but we didn't want to wait more because we know that backups are a big
issue for our users.

# Easier installation

## Installation instructions

During usability tests in Mexico and Brazil, we realized that our installation
process was already pretty easy to follow, but that some people were getting
lost while navigating between the different pages.

We simplified our instructions by making them into a [[single
page|install/windows]].

We added animations and more exciting visuals.

<video autoplay loop muted width="200" height="200" poster="https://tails.boum.org/install/inc/success/install.png">
  <source src="https://tails.boum.org/install/inc/success/install.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
</video>

Finally, we fixed no less than [30 other smaller usability issues](https://gitlab.tails.boum.org/tails/tails/-/issues/?sort=closed_desc&state=closed&label_name%5B%5D=C%3AInstallation&first_page_size=20) in the instructions!

## Tails.net and more reliable downloads

After 13 years of relying on the domain name of our historical hosting
provider, *boum.org*, we finally acquired a simple, beautiful, and trustworthy
domain name of our own:

🎉 ✨ ***tails.net*** ✨ 🎉 

It will take us some time to migrate all our services to this new name.

As a start, we deployed <https://download.tails.net/>. This new service uses
[Mirrorbits](https://github.com/etix/mirrorbits), a more reliable way of
redirecting downloads to one of our mirrors. It prevents many broken downloads
and automates some tedious work.

# Team life

## New team members

Our team grew and welcomed 2 new full-time workers:

- [@disoj](https://gitlab.tails.boum.org/disoj) joined us as our Project
  Manager in April.

  She will help our team grow, mature, and ultimately serve our users better.
  It's the first time that we hired for a managerial position, so it's a very
  big and positive change.

- [@groente](https://gitlab.tails.boum.org/groente), a long-term Sysadmin
  consultant, joined us full-time in July.

  He will help us deploy better infrastructure to make our work more efficient
  while keeping all our machines (and thus your Tails) secure.

## Organizational redesign

Behind the curtains, Tails operates as a small team that values transparency,
autonomy, and horizontal decision-making. We have always worked fully remotely
and now have team members in 10 different countries.

All this can be challenging sometimes :)

This year, we redesigned, clarified, and documented our internal organizing a
lot. In particular, it is now clearer who is responsible, and legitimate, to
make which decisions. This will make Tails a more pleasant and efficient
working place, so we can focus more of our energy on improving our tools.

# We never let you down!

To always keep you safe, a significant part of our work consists in releasing
Tails every 4 weeks, updating to new version of *Tor Browser* and the *Tor*
client, migrating to new technologies in GNOME or Debian, etc.

We released:

- 14 releases, never skipping a single update of *Tor Browser*.

- Tails 5.0 based on Debian Bullseye, with important technical migrations.

- 2 emergency releases to fix critical vulnerabilities in the *Tor* client and
  the *Linux* kernel.

All this work has been made possible by donations from users like you. If you
like these changes and want more, donate now to fund our work in 2023.

<div class="cfa">

[[Donate|donate]]

</div>
