[[!meta title="Call for testing: 5.0~beta1"]]
[[!meta date="Tue, 05 Apr 2022 00:00:00 -0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]

[[!tag announce]]

We plan to release Tails 5.0 on May 3 or May 31. It will be the first version of Tails
based on Debian 11 (Bullseye). It brings new versions of most of the software
included in Tails and some important usability improvements.

You can help Tails by testing the beta for Tails 5.0
before the end of April.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes and upgrades

* Update to Debian 11 (Bullseye)

  In particular this updates software included in Tails to:

  - GNOME 3.38
  - Audacity 2.4.2
  - GIMP 2.20.22
  - Inkscape 1.0.2
  - LibreOffice 7.0.4
  - OnionCircuits 0.7
  - Pidgin 2.14.1
  - Thunderbird 91.7.0-2~deb11u1

* Upgrade Tor Browser to 11.0.10

* Enable driverless printing and scanning ([[!tails_ticket 18521]])

# Fixed problems

* Fix locales translation in the Welcome Screen ([[!tails_ticket 18199]])

* Fix opening a Veracrypt volume with a long passphrase ([[!tails_ticket 17474]])

# Changelog

For more details about what has changed in Tails 5.0~beta1, read our
[changelog](https://gitlab.tails.boum.org/tails/tails/-/raw/5.0-beta1/debian/changelog).

# Known issues

* *WhisperBack* fails to send error reports ([[!tails_ticket 18908]]).

* *Tails Installer* sometimes fails to install or upgrade Tails ([[!tails_ticket 18844]], [[!tails_ticket 18841]]).
  If this happens to you, please retry.

* *Additional Software* sometimes fails to install packages on first startup after configuring it ([[!tails_ticket 18839]]).
  To fix this problem, install your *Additional Software* manually again, then restart Tails.

* *OpenPGP Applet* is not usable: its icon is not displayed ([[!tails_ticket 18845]]).

* Tails 5.0~beta1 takes more time to start than previous versions ([[!tails_ticket 18906]]).

* [Open issues for Tails 5.0](https://gitlab.tails.boum.org/tails/tails/-/boards/4?label_name%5B%5D=Core%20Work%3AFoundations%20Team&milestone_title=Tails_5.0)

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# How to test Tails 5.0~beta1?

Keep in mind that this is a test image. We tested that it is not broken in
obvious ways, but it might still contain undiscovered issues.

Please, report any new problem to <tails-testers@boum.org> (public mailing list)
before the end of April.

# Get Tails 5.0~beta1

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

No automatic upgrade is available, so do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To download 5.0~beta1

### Direct download

  - <a href="http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/alpha/tails-amd64-5.0~beta1/tails-amd64-5.0~beta1.img">For USB sticks (USB image)</a>
    ([[OpenPGP signature|torrents/files/tails-amd64-5.0~beta1.img.sig]])

  - <a href="http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/alpha/tails-amd64-5.0~beta1/tails-amd64-5.0~beta1.iso">For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)</a>
    ([[OpenPGP signature|torrents/files/tails-amd64-5.0~beta1.iso.sig]])

### BitTorrent download

  - [For USB sticks (USB image)](https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/tails-amd64-5.0~beta1.img.torrent)

  - [For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)](https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/tails-amd64-5.0~beta1.iso.torrent)

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/windows]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]
  - [[Install from Debian or Ubuntu using the command line and GnuPG|install/expert]]

<div class="caution"><p>The Persistent Storage on the USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

# What's coming up?

We will keep our [[calendar|contribute/calendar]] updated regarding the planned
release date of Tails 5.0.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=5.0-beta1">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
