[[!meta title="Test the new Persistent Storage and Wayland support"]]
[[!meta date="Thu, 03 Nov 2022 20:00:00 -0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]

[[!tag announce]]

We are extremely proud to present you a beta of 2 new major features of Tails:
a complete redesign of the Persistent Storage and the migration to Wayland,
which brings a better *Unsafe Browser*.

This beta also includes an easier way to enter Tor bridges in Tails by scanning
a QR code.

This work has been made possible by donations from users like you. If you like
these changes and want more, [[donate now to fund our work in 2023|donate]].

We will only release these features officially in Tails 5.8 (December 20), but
you can try Tails 5.8~beta1 already!

[[!toc levels=1]]

# New Persistent Storage

Since January 2021, we have been working on a complete redesign of the
Persistent Storage.

The Persistent Storage hasn't changed much since its first release in 2012
because the code was hard to modify and improve. But, we learned from users
that the Persistent Storage could do a lot more for you if it had more features
and was easier to use.

We've worked hard since 2021 to implement a [new
design](https://gitlab.tails.boum.org/tails/blueprints/-/wikis/Persistent-Storage-redesign)
and completely rewrite the code in Python.

The new Persistent Storage doesn't require restarting after creating it or each
time you activate a new feature.

It will also make it easier for us to persist more settings in the future.

And finally, it's looks so much better!

[[!img create.png link="no" alt=""]]

[[!img features.png link="no" alt=""]]

# Wayland and better Unsafe Browser

Tails 5.8~beta1 replaces the deprecated X.Org display system with Wayland.

Wayland brings more security in depth to Tails by making it harder for a
compromised application in Tails to compromise or misuse another application.

For example, since [[Tails 4.8|news/version_4.8]], the *Unsafe Browser* is
disabled by default because a security vulnerability in another application in
Tails could start an invisible *Unsafe Browser*, reveal your IP address, and
[[deanonymize you|doc/anonymous_internet/unsafe_browser#security]].

Wayland fixes this vulnerability and makes it safe to reenable the *Unsafe Browser*
by default.

Wayland also brings in other features that were not working yet in the *Unsafe
Browser*:

- Sound
- Uploads and downloads
- Alternative input methods for Chinese and other non-Latin languages
- Accessibility features like the screen reader and virtual keyboard

Enjoy!

# QR code scanning for Tor bridges

Tails 5.8~beta1 makes it easier to enter new Tor bridges in Tails by scanning a
QR code.

To get a QR code, you can either:

- Send an empty email to <bridges@torproject.org> from a Gmail or Riseup email
  address.

- Get bridges from <https://bridges.torproject.org/> and print the QR code on
  paper.

We are aware that the QR codes that are currently provided are too big to be
easy to scan. We are [working with
Tor](https://gitlab.torproject.org/tpo/anti-censorship/bridgedb/-/issues/40052)
to make them smaller and easier to scan.

[[!img qr_code.png link="no" alt=""]]

# How to test Tails 5.8~beta1?

You can either install Tails 5.8~beta1 on a new USB stick or upgrade your Tails
USB stick with an existing Persistent Storage to Tails 5.8~beta1.

Keep in mind that this is a test image. We tested that it is not broken in
obvious ways, but it might still contain undiscovered issues.

Please, report any new problem to <tails-testers@boum.org> (public mailing
list).

# Get Tails 5.8~beta1

## To download 5.8~beta1

### Direct download

  - <a href="https://download.tails.net/tails/alpha/tails-amd64-5.8~beta1/tails-amd64-5.8~beta1.img">For USB sticks (USB image)</a>
    ([[OpenPGP signature|torrents/files/tails-amd64-5.8~beta1.img.sig]])

  - <a href="https://download.tails.net/tails/alpha/tails-amd64-5.8~beta1/tails-amd64-5.8~beta1.iso">For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)</a>
    ([[OpenPGP signature|torrents/files/tails-amd64-5.8~beta1.iso.sig]])

### BitTorrent download

  - [For USB sticks (USB image)](https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/tails-amd64-5.8~beta1.img.torrent)

  - [For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)](https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/tails-amd64-5.8~beta1.iso.torrent)

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/windows]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]
  - [[Install from Debian or Ubuntu using the command line and GnuPG|install/expert]]

<div class="caution"><p>The Persistent Storage on the USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

1. [[Make a backup|doc/first_steps/persistence/backup]] a your current
   Persistent Storage in case something goes wrong.

1. We don't provide automatic an update to 5.8~beta1, but you can do a [[manual
   upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]] to 5.8~beta1 and keep your current Persistent
   Storage.

1. If you want to stop using 5.8~beta1, you can do a manual upgrade to [[Tails
   5.6|news/version_5.6]].

   Once Tails 5.7 is out on November 22, you will have to do a manual
   upgrade from Tails 5.8~beta1 to 5.7.

This work has been made possible by donations from users like you. If you like
these changes and want more, donate now to fund our work in 2023.

<div class="cfa">

[[Donate|donate]]

</div>
