[[!meta title="Call for testing 4.22~rc1"]]
[[!meta date="Thu, 19 Aug 2021 12:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Contribute to Tails by testing our release candidate for Tails 4.22!

[[!toc levels=1]]

<h1 id="new">What's new in 4.22~rc1?</h1>

Tails 4.22, scheduled to be released on September 7, will allow users to
manually set the time of their computer's hardware clock. This addresses a
long-standing issue of Tails not being able to connect to Tor when obfs4
bridges are being used on a computer that has a hardware clock that is east
from UTC. [[!tails_ticket 15548]]

Also, Tails 4.22 will allow users to save bridges in Persistent Storage so
that they do not need to be reentered every time Tails is restarted.

<h1>What's new since 4.21?</h1>

- Update *Thunderbird* to [78.13](https://www.thunderbird.net/en-US/thunderbird/78.13.0/releasenotes/)

- Tor Connection assistant will stop trying to connect to Tor when the error
  screen is displayed.

- Offline documentation includes the the Russian language translation.

For more details, read our
[changelog](https://gitlab.tails.boum.org/tails/tails/-/raw/4.22-rc1/debian/changelog).

<h1>Get Tails 4.22~rc1</h1>

<h2 id="upgrade">To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage</h2>

If you are running Tails 4.2 or later, you can upgrade like this:

1. Start Tails and
   [[set an administration password|doc/first_steps/welcome_screen/administration_password]].

1. Connect to the network and make sure Tor is connected successfully.

1. If you are running Tails 4.19~rc1 you must run this command in a
   *Terminal* or you will [[!tails_ticket desc="experience issues"
   18127]]:

       torsocks curl --silent https://tails.boum.org/isrg-root-x1-cross-signed.pem \
       | sudo tee --append /usr/local/etc/ssl/certs/tails.boum.org-CA.pem

   Enter the administration password when asked for the "password
   for amnesia".

1. Run this command in a *Terminal*:

       echo TAILS_CHANNEL=\"alpha\" | sudo tee -a /etc/os-release && \
            tails-upgrade-frontend-wrapper

   Enter the administration password when asked for the "password
   for amnesia".

1. After the upgrade is applied, restart Tails and choose
   **Applications&nbsp;▸ Tails&nbsp;▸ About Tails**
   to verify that you are running Tails 4.20~rc1.

<h2 id="download">Download Tails 4.22~rc1</h1>

Download and install Tails 4.22~rc1 as usually.

<div class="caution">

<p>All the data on this USB stick will be lost. Don't install Tails 4.22~rc1
on any USB stick that already has a Persistent Storage, upgrade instead.</p>

</div>

### Direct download

  - <a class="use-mirror-pool" href="http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/alpha/tails-amd64-4.20~rc1/tails-amd64-4.20~rc1.img">For USB sticks (USB image)</a><br/>
    <small>[[OpenPGP signature|torrents/files/tails-amd64-4.20~rc1.img.sig]]<br/>SHA256SUM: 7b37ad1cb5cf8e8184676b1ac3d3a66e58dbfa70bf4c13f32f769df304eddd71</small>

  - <a class="use-mirror-pool" href="http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/alpha/tails-amd64-4.20~rc1/tails-amd64-4.20~rc1.iso">For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)</a><br/>
    <small>[[OpenPGP signature|torrents/files/tails-amd64-4.20~rc1.iso.sig]]<br/>SHA256SUM: bc4cc51e7e0bc570ccf716aa06f151ca432ba8e78d25861d89b6d5d338aebcdc</small>

### BitTorrent download

  - [For USB sticks (USB image)](https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/tails-amd64-4.22~rc1.img.torrent)

  - [For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)](https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/tails-amd64-4.22~rc1.iso.torrent)

<h1 id="how-to-test">What to test in Tails 4.22~rc1?</h1>

We think Tails 4.22~rc1 is in pretty good shape, but it still has a
few rough edges. We need your help to identify as many new problems as
possible!

We are particularly interested in any issues you experience with time
syncing, especially when reported using
[[WhisperBack|doc/first_steps/bug_reporting#whisperback]]. Also, we
really appreciate testing of diverse and rare network configurations:

- When connecting to Tor without bridges fails.

- When Tails is not connected to a local network yet.

- When disconnecting from a Wi-Fi network with Internet connectivity and then
  reconnecting to a different Wi-Fi network without Internet connectivity.

- When disconnecting from Wi-Fi network that don't require Tor bridges and the
  reconnecting to different Wi-Fi network that requires Tor bridges.

- When connecting to a Tor bridge that works at first but then stops working.

- When connecting to the Internet using a proxy.

Tell us if anything is unclear, confusing, or not working as you would expect.

Please, send your feedback to <tails-testers@boum.org> (public mailing list).

If you are comfortable with the command line, check our [hacking
tips](https://gitlab.tails.boum.org/tails/tails/-/blob/devel/config/chroot_local-includes/usr/share/doc/tails/tca/HACKING.md).
They contain firewall rules that can be used to block access to the Tor network
without bridges or simulate a broken bridge.

<h1 id="known-issues">Known issues in 4.22~rc1</h1>

* Korean and Polish localization is not available. We will attempt to
  fix this in the final Tailss 4.20 release.

<h1 id="next">What's coming next?</h1>

Tails 4.20 will be the first release of a series of improvements to connect to
Tor. Next, we will work on:

- Saving Tor bridges to the Persistent Storage ([[!tails_ticket 5461]])
- Detecting better when the computer has no supported Wi-Fi hardware ([[!tails_ticket 14534]])
- Detecting captive portals ([[!tails_ticket 5785]])
- Helping people fixing their clock when failing to connect to `obfs4` bridges ([[!tails_ticket 15548]])

The learn more about our plans, read our [[!tails_blueprint network_connection
desc="blueprint on network connection"]].

Happy testing!
