[[!meta title="Tails 4.20 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Tue, 13 Jul 2021 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

<h1 id="tor-connection"><i>Tor Connection</i> assistant</h1>

Tails 4.20 completely changes how to connect to the Tor network from Tails.

After connecting to a local network, a *Tor Connection* assistant helps you
connect to the Tor network.

[[!img doc/anonymous_internet/tor/tor-connection.png link="no" alt=""]]

This new assistant is most useful for users who are at high risk of physical
surveillance, under heavy network censorship, or on a poor Internet connection:

- It protects better the users who need to go unnoticed if using Tor could look
  suspicious to someone who monitors their Internet connection (parental
  control, abusive partner, school or work network, etc.).

- It allows people who need to connect to Tor using bridges to configure them
  without having to change the default configuration in the Welcome Screen.

- It helps first-time users understand how to connect to a local Wi-Fi network.

- It provides feedback while connecting to Tor and helps troubleshoot network
  problems.

We know that this assistant is still far from being perfect, even if we have
been working on this assistant since February.  If anything is unclear,
confusing, or not working as you would expect, please send your feedback to
<tails-dev@boum.org> (public mailing list).

This first release of the *Tor Connection* assistant is only a first step. We
will add more improvements to it in the coming months to:

- Save Tor bridges to the Persistent Storage ([[!tails_ticket 5461]])

- Help detect when Wi-Fi is not working ([[!tails_ticket 14534]])

- Detect if you have to sign in to the local network using a captive portal
  ([[!tails_ticket 5785]])

- Synchronize the clock to make it easier to use Tor bridges in Asia
  ([[!tails_ticket 15548]])

- Make it easier to learn about new Tor bridges ([[!tails_ticket 18219]],
  [[!tails_ticket 15331]])

<h1 id="changes">Changes and updates</h1>

- Update *OnionShare* from 1.3.2 to
  [2.2](https://github.com/micahflee/onionshare/blob/develop/CHANGELOG.md#22).

  This major update adds a feature to
  [host a website](https://docs.onionshare.org/2.3.2/en/features.html#host-a-website)
  accessible from a Tor onion service.

  [[!img onionshare.png link="no" alt=""]]

- Update *KeePassXC* from 2.5.4 to
  [2.6.2](https://github.com/keepassxreboot/keepassxc/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#262-2020-10-21).

  This major update comes with a redesign of the interface.

  [[!img keepassxc.png link="no" alt=""]]

- Update *Tor Browser* to [10.5.2](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-1052).

- Update *Thunderbird* to [78.11.0](https://www.thunderbird.net/en-US/thunderbird/78.11.0/releasenotes/).

- Update *Tor* to 0.4.5.9.

- Update the *Linux* kernel to 5.10.46. This should improve the support for newer
  hardware (graphics, Wi-Fi, and so on).

- Rename *MAC address spoofing* as *MAC address anonymization* in the Welcome
  Screen.

<h1 id="fixes">Fixed problems</h1>

### Automatic upgrades

- Made the download of upgrades and the handling of errors more robust. ([[!tails_ticket 18162]])

- Display an error message when failing to check for available upgrades. ([[!tails_ticket 18238]])

### Tails Installer

- Made the display of the **Reinstall** button more robust. ([[!tails_ticket 18300]])

- Make the **Install** and **Upgrade** unavailable after a USB stick is removed. ([[!tails_ticket 18346]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<h1 id="issues">Known issues</h1>

[[!inline pages="news/version_4.14/broken_upgrades" raw="yes" sort="age"]]

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

<h1 id="get">Get Tails 4.20</h1>

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are broken from Tails 4.14 and earlier. See the
  <a href="#broken-upgrades">known issue above</a>.

- Automatic upgrades are available from Tails 4.14 or later to 4.20.

  You can [[reduce the size of the download|doc/upgrade#reduce]] of future
  automatic upgrades by doing a manual upgrade to the latest version.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/windows]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]

<div class="caution"><p>The Persistent Storage on the USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 4.20 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

<h1 id="next">What's coming up?</h1>

Tails 4.21 is scheduled for August 10.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.
