[[!meta title="Tails 5.8 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Tue, 20 Dec 2022 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Tails 5.8 is the most important release of Tails in years. It includes both
major redesign of existing features, important usability improvements, and
hardened security.

This work has been made possible by donations from users like you. If you like
these changes and want more, donate now to fund our work in 2023.

[[**Donate now to fund our work in 2023.**|donate]]

<h1 id="features">New features</h1>

## New Persistent Storage

After 2 years of hard work, we are extremely proud to present you a complete
redesign of the Persistent Storage.

The Persistent Storage hasn't changed much since its first release in 2012
because the code was hard to modify and improve. But, we learned from users
that the Persistent Storage could do a lot more for you if it had more features
and was easier to use.

[[!img create.png link="no" alt=""]]

[[!img configure.png link="no" alt=""]]

- You don't have to restart anymore after creating the Persistent Storage or
  each time you activate a new feature.

- You can change the password of your Persistent Storage from this new
  application.

- You can choose to create a Persistent Storage directly from the Welcome
  Screen, if you don't have one already.

  [[!img onboard.png link="no" alt=""]]

## Wayland and better Unsafe Browser

We replaced the deprecated X.Org display system with Wayland.

Even if you won't notice any visual difference, Wayland brings more security in
depth to Tails by making it harder for a compromised application in Tails to
compromise or misuse another application.

For example, since [[Tails 4.8|news/version_4.8]], the *Unsafe Browser* was
disabled by default because a security vulnerability in another application in
Tails could start an invisible *Unsafe Browser*, reveal your IP address, and
[[deanonymize you|doc/anonymous_internet/unsafe_browser#security]].

Wayland fixes this vulnerability and makes it safe to reenable the *Unsafe Browser*
by default. You can still disable the *Unsafe Browser* in the Welcome Screen.

Wayland also brings in other features that were not working yet in the *Unsafe
Browser*:

- Sound
- Uploads and downloads
- Alternative input methods for Chinese and other non-Latin languages
- Accessibility features like the screen reader and virtual keyboard

## QR code scanning of Tor bridges

We made it easier to enter new Tor bridges in Tails by scanning a QR code.

To get a QR code, you can either:

- Send an empty email to <bridges@torproject.org> from a Gmail or Riseup email
  address.

- Get bridges from <https://bridges.torproject.org/> and print the QR code on
  paper.

We are aware that the QR codes that are currently provided are too big to be
easy to scan. We are [working with
Tor](https://gitlab.torproject.org/tpo/anti-censorship/bridgedb/-/issues/40052)
to make them smaller and easier to scan.

[[!img test_5.8-beta1/qr_code.png link="no" alt=""]]

<h1 id="changes">Changes and updates</h1>

- Update *Tor Browser* to [12.0.1](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-1201).

- Update *Thunderbird* to [102.6.0](https://www.thunderbird.net/en-US/thunderbird/102.6.0/releasenotes/).

- Update *Tor* to 0.4.7.12.

- Remove the *Dasher* graphical text entry application.

<h1 id="fixes">Fixed problems</h1>

We fixed 3 usability issues in the *Tor Connection* assistant:

- Display a percentage on the connection progress bar. ([[!tails_ticket 19208]])

  [[!img progress.png link="no" alt=""]]

- Fix links to documentation. ([[!tails_ticket 19172]])

- Add a **Bridge** label in front of the line to enter a custom bridge. ([[!tails_ticket 19169]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<h1 id="issues">Known issues</h1>

<h2 id="qt">Problems with Qt applications like <i>Kleopatra</i> and <i>Feather</i></h2>

Applications using the Qt toolkit have issues in Wayland. You can work around
these issues by running these applications using XWayland instead.

### Clipboard encryption and decryption is broken in *Kleopatra* ([[!tails_ticket 19329]])

To fix this:

1. Choose **Applications**&nbsp;▸ **Utilities**&nbsp;▸ **Terminal** to open a terminal.

1. Execute the following command in the terminal:

       unset QT_QPA_PLATFORM & kleopatra &

   This only works if *Kleopatra* has never been started since Tails started.
   Otherwise, execute this command and try again:

       killall kleopatra

### AppImages like *Feather* wallet and *Bitcoin-Qt* fail to load ([[!tails_ticket 19326]])

To fix this:

1. Navigate to your AppImage in the *Files* browser.

1. Do right-click (on Mac, click with two fingers) in the folder and choose
   **Open in Terminal**.

1. Execute the following command in the terminal to start your AppImage.

   Replace:

   - <span class="command-placeholder">application.AppImage</span> by the
     file name of your AppImage.

   <p class="pre command">unset QT_QPA_PLATFORM ; ./<span class="command-placeholder">application.AppImage</span></p>

   For example, to start the *Feather* wallet version 2.1.2, execute:

       unset QT_QPA_PLATFORM ; ./feather-2.1.2.AppImage

<h2 id="graphics">Some graphics cards stopped working in Tails 5.8</h2>

People have reported us several graphics cards that used to work in Tails 5.7
and stopped working in Tails 5.8:

- Nvidia
  * `10de:2489`
  * `10de:2504` RTX
  * `10de:2560` GA106M GeForce RTX 3060 Mobile
  * `10de:25e0`
- Intel
  * `8086:0046`
  * `8086:3185` GeminiLake
  * `8086:4692`
  * `8086:46a6`
  * `8086:4e55`
- AMD
  * `1002:1506`
  * `1002:15e7`
  * `1002:6605` Radeon R7 M260X
  * `1002:6649` Bonaire FirePro W5100
  * `1002:73df` RX Radeon 6700XT

Unfortunately, we have no solution to offer you so far.

We hope that this gets fixed in the next update of the Linux kernel in Tails 5.9.
<h2 id="ps">Persistent Storage fails to load with symbolic links in Dotfiles ([[!tails_ticket 19346]])</h2>

If you have [[!wikipedia Symbolic_link desc="symbolic links"]] in the
[[Dotfiles|doc/first_steps/persistence#dotfiles]] feature of your Persistent
Storage, your Persistent Storage fails to load with the error message:

    Failed to activate the Persistent Storage.
    Please start Tails and send an error report.

To fix this, remove or replace these symbolic links.

The following instructions explain how to access the content of your Persistent
Storage.

- When starting Tails:

  1. Do not unlock your Persistent Storage.

  2. Set an [[administration password|doc/first_steps/welcome_screen/administration_password]].

- In Tails, unlock your Persistent Storage:

  1. Choose **Applications**&nbsp;▸ **Utilities**&nbsp;▸ **Disks**.

  1. In the *Disks* utility, select your Tails USB stick in the left pane.

  1. Select the **TailsData LUKS** partition in the right pane.

  1. Click the **[[!img lib/unlock.png alt="Unlock selected encrypted partition"
     class="symbolic" link="no"]]** button.

  1. Enter the passphrase of your Persistent Storage.

  1. In the second password prompt, enter your administration password.

  1. Click the **TailsData Ext4** that appeared below the **TailsData LUKS** partition.

  1. Click the **[[!img lib/media-playback-start.png alt="Mount selected
   partition" link=no class=symbolic]]**.

  1. Close the *Disks* utility.

- Navigate to the content of your Persistent Storage:

  1. Choose **Applications**&nbsp;▸ **System Tools**&nbsp;▸ **Root Terminal** to
     open a terminal with administration rights.

  1. Execute the following command to open the *Files* browser with administration rights:

         nautilus

  1. In the *Files* browser, navigate to */media/amnesia/TailsData/dotfiles*.

     Remove or replace all symbolic links in the dotfiles folder.

     Symbolic links have the following icon:

     [[!img symlink.png link="no" alt=""]]

  1. Restart Tails and try unlocking your Persistent Storage like usually.

## *Tor Browser* and *Unsafe Browser* have no minimize and maximize buttons ([[!tails_ticket 19328]])

To work around this:

1. Right-click on the *Tor Browser* tab in the window list at the bottom of the screen.

1. Choose **Minimize** or **Maximize**.

## Welcome Screen and Tor Connection do not fit on 800x600 resolution ([[!tails_ticket 19324]])

The top of the Welcome Screen and some button of the Tor Connection assistant are cut out on small displays (800×600), like
virtual machines. ([[!tails_ticket 19324]])

You can press **Alt+S** to start Tails.

## Switches of the Persistent Storage settings are very slow sometimes ([[!tails_ticket 19291]])

The switches that turn on and off the different features of the Persistent Storage
are very slow to respond on some USB sticks. Please report on [[!tails_ticket
19291]] if this happens to you.

## Progress bar of *Tor Connection* gets stuck around 50% ([[!tails_ticket 19173]])

When using a custom Tor `obfs4` bridge, the progress bar of *Tor Connection*
sometimes gets stuck halfway through and becomes extremely slow.

To fix this, you can either:

* Close and reopen *Tor Connection* to speed up the initial connection.

* Try a different `obfs4` bridge.

  This issue only affects outdated obfs4 bridges and does not happen with
  obfs4 bridges that run version 0.0.12 or later.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

<h1 id="get">Get Tails 5.8</h1>

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from Tails 5.0 or later to 5.8.

  You can [[reduce the size of the download|doc/upgrade#reduce]] of future
  automatic upgrades by doing a manual upgrade to the latest version.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/windows]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]
  - [[Install from Debian or Ubuntu using the command line and GnuPG|install/expert]]

<div class="caution"><p>The Persistent Storage on the USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 5.8 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]
