[[!meta title="Tails 5.15.1"]]
[[!meta date="Tue, 11 Jul 2023 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

<h1 id="changes">Changes and updates</h1>

- Update *Tor Browser* to [12.5](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-125).

  [Tor Browser 12.5](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-125)
  has a new circuit view and better information about onion services.

  [[!img doc/anonymous_internet/Tor_Browser/circuit-view.png link="no"]]

- Support onion service authentication in *Tor Browser*.

  For example, onion service authentication is used by *OnionShare* outside of
  Tails.

  [[!img authentication.png link="no" alt="Tor Browser asking for a private key to connect to an onion service"]]

- Display the version of Tails in the Boot Loader

  [[!img version.png link="no" alt="SYSLINUX Boot Loader displaying 'Tails 5.15.1'"]]

<h1 id="fixes">Fixed problems</h1>

- Fix the search of some languages and keyboard layouts. ([[!tails_ticket 19200]])

  [[!img language.png link="no" alt="Searching for 'esp' now returns 'Español'"]]

- Make the upgrade of the Persistent Storage more reliable:

  * On some systems, the message "*Upgrading the persistent storage*" was
    displayed every time in Tails 5.14 when Tails failed to upgrade one of the
    cryptographic parameters. ([[!tails_ticket 19734]])

  * On some USB sticks, upgrading the Persistent Storage was too slow and
    failed with the error message "*Upgrade of persistent storage failed*".
    ([[!tails_ticket 19728]])

- Fix opening documentation links from *Tails Installer*. ([[!tails_ticket 19870]])

- Prevent *Tor Browser* to access information about other Tor circuits.
  ([[!tails_ticket 19740]])

- Make the error when scanning the QR code of a bridge more consistent.
  ([[!tails_ticket 19737]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<h1 id="issues">Known issues</h1>

[[!tails_ticket 19728]] was affecting 5.14, and it might still be present. If you encounter this bug, please
[[send us a *WhisperBack* report|doc/first_steps/bug_reporting/#whisperback]].

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

<h1 id="get">Get Tails 5.15.1</h1>

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from Tails 5.0 or later to 5.15.1.

  You can [[reduce the size of the download|doc/upgrade#reduce]] of future
  automatic upgrades by doing a manual upgrade to the latest version.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/windows]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]
  - [[Install from Debian or Ubuntu using the command line and GnuPG|install/expert]]

<div class="caution"><p>The Persistent Storage on the USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 5.15.1 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]
