[[!meta title="Tails 5.14"]]
[[!meta date="Tue, 13 Jun 2023 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

<h1 id="features">New features</h1>

## Automatic migration to LUKS2 and Argon2id

<div class="caution">

<p>The cryptographic parameters of LUKS from Tails 5.12 or earlier are
weak against a state-sponsored attacker with physical access to your
device.</p>

</div>

To use stronger encryption parameters, Tails 5.14 automatically converts
your Persistent Storage to use LUKS2 encryption with Argon2id.

Still, we recommend you change the passphrase of your Persistent Storage
and other LUKS encrypted volumes unless you use a long passphrase of 5
random words or more.

[[Read our security advisory and upgrade guide.|security/argon2id]]

## Full backups from Tails Installer

You can now do a backup of your Persistent Storage from *Tails Installer*
by cloning your Persistent Storage to your backup Tails entirely.

[[!img doc/persistent_storage/backup/clone.png link="no" alt=""]]

You can still use the backup utility to go faster while [[updating your
backup|doc/persistent_storage/backup#updating]].

## Captive portal detection

Tails now detects if you have to sign in to the network using a captive
portal if you choose to connect to Tor automatically.

The error screen appears more quickly and recommends you try to sign in to
the network as the first option.

## Incentive to donate from *Electrum*

Many people use Tails to secure their Bitcoin wallet and donations in
Bitcoin are key to the survival of our project, so we integrated a way to
donate from *Electrum* in Tails.

[[!img electrum.png link="no" alt="Popup when starting Electrum with
button to donate"]]

<h1 id="changes">Changes and updates</h1>

## Included software

- Update *Tor Browser* to [12.0.7](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-1207).

## Usability improvements to the Persistent Storage

- Change the button to create a Persistent Storage from the Welcome Screen
  to be a switch. ([[!tails_ticket 19673]])

  [[!img create.png link="no" alt=""]]

- Add back the description of some of the Persistent Storage features and
  mention *Kleopatra* in the *GnuPG* feature. ([[!tails_ticket 19642]] and
  [[!tails_ticket 19675]])

  [[!img descriptions.png link="no" alt=""]]

- Hide the duplicated *Persistent* bookmark in the *Files* browser.
  ([[!tails_ticket 19646]])

<h1 id="fixes">Fixed problems</h1>

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

- Avoid restarting the desktop environment when creating a Persistent
  Storage. ([[!tails_ticket 19667]])

<h1 id="issues">Known issues</h1>

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

<h1 id="get">Get Tails 5.14</h1>

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from Tails 5.0 or later to 5.14.

  You can [[reduce the size of the download|doc/upgrade#reduce]] of future
  automatic upgrades by doing a manual upgrade to the latest version.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/windows]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]
  - [[Install from Debian or Ubuntu using the command line and GnuPG|install/expert]]

<div class="caution"><p>The Persistent Storage on the USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 5.14 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]
