[[!meta title="Tails 5.0 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Tue, 03 May 2022 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

We are especially proud to present you Tails 5.0, the first version of
Tails based on Debian 11 (Bullseye). It brings new versions of a lot of
the software included in Tails and new OpenPGP tools.

<h1 id="features">New features</h1>

## Kleopatra

We added [[*Kleopatra*|doc/encryption_and_privacy/kleopatra]] to replace the
*OpenPGP Applet* and the *Password and Keys* utility, also known as *Seahorse*.

The *OpenPGP Applet* was not actively developped anymore and was complicated
for us to keep in Tails. The *Password and Keys* utility was also poorly
maintained and Tails users suffered from too many of its issues until now, like
[[!tails_ticket 17183]]. 

*Kleopatra* provides equivalent features in a single tool and is more
actively developed.

[[!img kleopatra.png alt="" link="no"]]

<h1 id="changes">Changes and updates</h1>

- The Additional Software feature of the Persistent Storage is enabled by
  default to make it faster and more robust to configure your first additional
  software package.

- You can now use the Activities overview to access your windows and
  applications. To access the Activities overview, you can either:

  - Click on the <b>Activities</b> button.
  - Throw your mouse pointer to the top-left hot corner.
  - Press the <b>Super</b> ([[!img lib/start.png alt="" class="symbolic" link="no"]]) key on your keyboard.

  You can see your windows and applications in the overview. You can also start
  typing to search your applications, files, and folders.

[[!img desktop.png alt="" link="no"]]

## Included software

Most included software has been upgraded in Debian 11, for example:

- Update *Tor Browser* to [11.0.11](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-11011).

- Update *GNOME* from 3.30 to 3.38, with lots of small improvements to the
  desktop, the core *GNOME* utilities, and the locking screen.

- Update *MAT* from 0.8 to 0.12, which adds support to clean metadata from SVG,
  WAV, EPUB, PPM, and Microsoft Office files.

- Update *Audacity* from 2.2.2 to 2.4.2.

- Update *Disk Utility* from 3.30 to 3.38.

- Update *GIMP* from 2.10.8 to 2.10.22.

- Update *Inkscape* from 0.92 to 1.0.

- Update *LibreOffice* from 6.1 to 7.0.

## Hardware support

- The new support for driverless printing and scanning in Linux makes it easier
  to make recent printers and scanners work in Tails.

<h1 id="fixes">Fixed problems</h1>

- Fix unlocking *VeraCrypt* volumes that have very long passphrases.
  ([[!tails_ticket 17474]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<h1 id="issues">Known issues</h1>

<!--

Copy the known issues from the previous version if they haven't been
solved or move them to /support/known_issues if more appropriate.

-->

- *Additional Software* sometimes doesn't work when restarting for the first
  time right after creating a Persistent Storage. ([[!tails_ticket 18839]])

  To solve this, install the same additional software package again after
  restarting with the Persistent Storage for the first time.

- *Thunderbird* displays a popup to choose an application when opening links.
  ([[!tails_ticket 18913]])

- *Tails Installer* sometimes fails to clone. ([[!tails_ticket 18844]])

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

<h1 id="get">Get Tails 5.0</h1>

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are not available to 5.0.

  All users have to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/windows]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]
  - [[Install from Debian or Ubuntu using the command line and GnuPG|install/expert]]

<div class="caution"><p>The Persistent Storage on the USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 5.0 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

<h1 id="next">What's coming up?</h1>

Tails 5.1 is scheduled for May 31.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.
