[[!meta title="Tails 5.1 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Sat, 04 Jun 2022 18:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes the security vulnerability in the JavaScript engine of
*Firefox* and *Tor Browser* announced on [[May
24|security/prototype_pollution]].

This release was delayed from May 31 to June 5 because of a delay in the
release of *Tor Browser*
[11.0.14](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-11014/).

<h1 id="changes">Changes and updates</h1>

## Tor Connection assistant

Tails 5.1 includes many improvements to the Tor Connection assistant:

- The *Tor Connection* assistant now automatically fixes the computer clock if
  you choose to connect to Tor automatically.

  This makes is much easier for people in Asia to circumvent censorship.

  Tails learns the current time by connecting to the captive portal detection
  service of [Fedora](https://getfedora.org/), which is used by most Linux
  distributions. This connection does not go through the Tor network and is an
  exception to our policy of only making Internet connections through the Tor
  network.

  <div class="next">

  <p>You can learn more about our security assessment of this time
  synchronization in our [[design documentation about non-Tor
  traffic|contribute/design/Tor_enforcement#non-tor-traffic]].</p>

  </div>

- The time displayed in the top navigation uses the time zone selected when
  fixing the clock in the *Tor Connection* assistant.

  In the future, we will make it possible to change the displayed time zone for
  everybody from the desktop ([[!tails_ticket 10819]]) and store it in the
  Persistent Storage ([[!tails_ticket 12094]]).

- The last screen of the *Tor Connection* assistant makes it clear whether you
  are connected using Tor bridges or not.

  [[!img bridges.png link="no" alt="Connected to Tor successfully with bridges"]]

## *Unsafe Browser* and captive portals

- We wrote a new homepage for the *Unsafe Browser* when you are not connected
  to the Tor network yet. This new version makes it easier to understand how to
  sign in to the network using a captive portal.

  [[!img doc/anonymous_internet/unsafe_browser/captive_portal.svg link="no" alt="Example of captive portal: Free Wi-Fi hotspot"]]

- Tails now asks for confirmation before restarting when the *Unsafe Browser*
  was not enabled in the Welcome Screen. This prevents losing work too easily.

  [[!img confirmation.png link="no" alt=""]]

## Kleopatra

- Associate OpenPGP files with *Kleopatra* in the *Files* browser.

  You can now double-click on `.gpg` files to decrypt them.

- Add *Kleopatra* to the Favorites applications.

  [[!img favorites.png link="no" alt=""]]

## Included software

- Update *tor* to 0.4.7.7.

- Update *Tor Browser* to [11.0.14](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-11014/).

- Update *Thunderbird* to [91.9](https://www.thunderbird.net/en-US/thunderbird/91.9.0/releasenotes/).

- Update the *Linux* kernel to 5.10.113. This should improve the support
  for newer hardware: graphics, Wi-Fi, and so on.

<h1 id="fixes">Fixed problems</h1>

- Remove the automatic selection of the option **Configure a bridge** when
  rolling back from the option to hide that you are connecting to Tor.
  ([[!tails_ticket 18546]])

- Give the same instructions on both screens where you have to configure a
  bridge. ([[!tails_ticket 18596]])

- Help rename the default *KeePassXC* database to open it automatically in the
  future. ([[!tails_ticket 18966]])

- Fix sharing files using *OnionShare* from the *Files* browser.
  ([[!tails_ticket 18990]])

  [[!img onionshare.png link="no" alt="Share via OnionShare"]]

- Disable search providers in the Activities overview: files, calculator, and
  terminal. ([[!tails_ticket 18952]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<h1 id="issues">Known issues</h1>

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

<h1 id="get">Get Tails 5.1</h1>

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from Tails 5.0.

  You can [[reduce the size of the download|doc/upgrade#reduce]] of future
  automatic upgrades by doing a manual upgrade to the latest version.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/windows]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]
  - [[Install from Debian or Ubuntu using the command line and GnuPG|install/expert]]

<div class="caution"><p>The Persistent Storage on the USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 5.1 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

<h1 id="next">What's coming up?</h1>

Tails 5.2 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for June 28.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.
