[[!meta title="Tails 5.13"]]
[[!meta date="Tue, 16 May 2023 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

<h1 id="features">New features</h1>

- Add `curl`, a command line tool to download over HTTPS, FTP, and other
  protocols.

  `curl` can be useful for online investigations as an alternative to `wget`.

  Everything you do with `curl` goes through the Tor network. If you want to
  use `curl` on a local network, use `/usr/bin/curl` instead.

<h1 id="changes">Changes and updates</h1>

- Use LUKS2 by default for all new Persistent Storage and LUKS encrypted
  volumes. LUKS2 provide stronger cryptography by default.

  We will provide a migration plan from LUKS1 to LUKS2 for existing Persistent
  Storage in Tails 5.14 (early June).

- Update *Tor Browser* to [12.0.6](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-1206).

<h1 id="fixes">Fixed problems</h1>

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<h1 id="issues">Known issues</h1>

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

<h1 id="get">Get Tails 5.13</h1>

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from Tails 5.0 or later to 5.13.

  You can [[reduce the size of the download|doc/upgrade#reduce]] of future
  automatic upgrades by doing a manual upgrade to the latest version.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/windows]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]
  - [[Install from Debian or Ubuntu using the command line and GnuPG|install/expert]]

<div class="caution"><p>The Persistent Storage on the USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 5.13 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]
