[[!meta title="Tails 4.22 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Tue, 07 Sep 2021 18:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

In Tails 4.22, we focused on solving the most important issues in the *Tor
Connection* assistant to make it
more robust and easier to use.

<h1 id="changes">Changes and updates</h1>

## Included software and hardware support

- Update *Tor Browser* to [10.5.6](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-1056).

- Update *Thunderbird* to [78.13](https://www.thunderbird.net/en-US/thunderbird/78.13.0/releasenotes/).

- Update the AMD graphics firmware to 20210818. This should improve the support
  for some AMD graphics cards.

## *Tor Connection*

- Change the custom bridge interface to only allow entering 1 bridge.
  ([[!tails_ticket 18550]])

  People had troubles knowing how to enter their custom bridges when the widget
  was a textarea and only the first bridge is used anyway.

  [[!img one-bridge.png alt="" link="no"]]

- Allow saving 1 custom bridge in the Persistent Storage. ([[!tails_ticket
  5461]])

  [[!img persistent-bridge.png alt="" link="no"]]

- Allow fixing the clock manually when connecting to Tor using bridges fails.
  ([[!tails_ticket 15548]])

  This helps people East from London connect to Tor using obfs4 bridges and
  makes connecting to Tor more robust in general.

  [[!img fix-clock.png alt="" link="no"]]

- Reduce the timeout that determines whether we can connect to Tor at all from
  30 seconds to 10 seconds. Increase the timeout to start Tor entirely from 120
  seconds to 600 seconds. ([[!tails_ticket 18501]]).

  *Tor Connection* now fails quicker when it's impossible to connect to Tor,
  while being more robust on slow Internet connections.

- Allow trying again to connect to Tor from the error screen. ([[!tails_ticket
  18539]])

## *Unsafe Browser*

- Stop restarting Tor when exiting the *Unsafe Browser*. ([[!tails_ticket
  18562]])

- Only mention the Persistent Storage in the *Unsafe Browser* warning when
  there is already a Persistent Storage. ([[!tails_ticket 18551]])

## Others

- Make sure that automatic upgrades are downloaded from a working mirror.
  ([[!tails_ticket 15755]])

- Add Russian to the offline documentation included in Tails.

<h1 id="fixes">Fixed problems</h1>

## *Tor Connection*

- Fix connecting to Tor using the default bridges. ([[!tails_ticket 18462]])

- Fix connecting to Tor when the Wi-Fi settings are saved in the Persistent
  Storage. ([[!tails_ticket 18532]])

- Stop trying to connect to Tor in the background when *Tor Connection* reaches
  the error screen. ([[!tails_ticket 18740]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<h1 id="issues">Known issues</h1>

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

<h1 id="get">Get Tails 4.22</h1>

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are broken from Tails 4.14 and earlier.

  Follow our instructions to do an [[automatic upgrade from Tails 4.15, Tails
  4.16, Tails 4.17, or Tails 4.18|doc/upgrade/error/check#4.18]].

- Automatic upgrades are available from Tails 4.19 or later to 4.22.

  You can [[reduce the size of the download|doc/upgrade#reduce]] of future
  automatic upgrades by doing a manual upgrade to the latest version.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/windows]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]

<div class="caution"><p>The Persistent Storage on the USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 4.22 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

<h1 id="next">What's coming up?</h1>

Tails 4.23 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for October 5.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.
