[[!meta title="Tails 5.3.1 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Tue, 02 Aug 2022 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release is an emergency release to fix a security vulnerability in the
*Linux* kernel.

<h1 id="changes">Changes and updates</h1>

- Update the *Linux* kernel to 5.10.127-2, which fixes
  [CVE-2022-34918](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2022-34918),
  a vulnerability that allows applications in Tails to gain administration
  privileges.

  For example, if an attacker was able to exploit other unknown security
  vulnerabilities in *Tor Browser*, they might then use CVE-2022-34918 to take
  full control of your Tails and deanonymize you.

  This attack is very unlikely, but could be performed by a strong attacker,
  such as a government or a hacking firm. We are not aware of this attack being
  used in the wild.

- Update *Thunderbird* to [91.12.0](https://www.thunderbird.net/en-US/thunderbird/91.12.0/releasenotes/).

<h1 id="fixes">Fixed problems</h1>

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<h1 id="issues">Known issues</h1>

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

<h1 id="get">Get Tails 5.3.1</h1>

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from Tails 5.0 or later to 5.3.1.

  You can [[reduce the size of the download|doc/upgrade#reduce]] of future
  automatic upgrades by doing a manual upgrade to the latest version.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/windows]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]
  - [[Install from Debian or Ubuntu using the command line and GnuPG|install/expert]]

<div class="caution"><p>The Persistent Storage on the USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 5.3.1 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

<h1 id="next">What's coming up?</h1>

Tails 5.4 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for August 23.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.
