[[!meta title="Tails 5.1.1 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Thu, 23 Jun 2022 10:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes a [high severity security issue in
tor](https://forum.torproject.net/t/stable-release-0-4-7-8/3679), that affects
performance and possibly anonymity.

<h1 id="changes">Changes and updates</h1>

## Included software

- Update *tor* to 0.4.7.8.

- Update *Thunderbird* to [91.10](https://www.thunderbird.net/en-US/thunderbird/91.10.0/releasenotes/).

- Update the *Linux* kernel to 5.10.120. This fixes important security issues.

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<h1 id="issues">Known issues</h1>

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

<h1 id="get">Get Tails 5.1.1</h1>

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from Tails 5.x.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/windows]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]
  - [[Install from Debian or Ubuntu using the command line and GnuPG|install/expert]]

<div class="caution"><p>The Persistent Storage on the USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 5.1.1 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

<h1 id="next">What's coming up?</h1>

Tails 5.2 is [[tentatively scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for July 5,
but it will likely be released later than that.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.
