[[!meta title="Tails 4.24 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Fri, 04 Nov 2021 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

<h1 id="changes">Changes and updates</h1>

- Update *Tor Browser* to [11.0](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-11-0).

- Make the confirmation dialog of *Tails Installer* more scary when
  reinstalling a USB stick that has a Persistent Storage. ([[!tails_ticket 18301]])

## Improvements to the Tor Connection assistant

- Improve the time zone selection interface. ([[!tails_ticket 18514]])

- Improve the explanation when fixing the clock. ([[!tails_ticket 18572]]) 

- Explain better how to type a bridge. ([[!tails_ticket 18597]])

- Remove mention to local networks when opening the *Unsafe Browser*. ([[!tails_ticket 18600]])

<h1 id="fixes">Fixed problems</h1>

- Avoid high CPU usage when getting download progress info in *Tails Upgrader*.
  ([[!tails_ticket 18632]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<h1 id="issues">Known issues</h1>

- The *Unsafe Browser* has display problems, but still works to sign in to a
  network using a captive portal.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

<h1 id="get">Get Tails 4.24</h1>

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are broken from Tails 4.14 and earlier.

  Follow our instructions to do an [[automatic upgrade from Tails 4.15, Tails
  4.16, Tails 4.17, or Tails 4.18|doc/upgrade/error/check#4.18]].

- Automatic upgrades are available from Tails 4.19 or later to 4.24.

  You can [[reduce the size of the download|doc/upgrade#reduce]] of future
  automatic upgrades by doing a manual upgrade to the latest version.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/windows]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]

<div class="caution"><p>The Persistent Storage on the USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 4.24 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

<h1 id="next">What's coming up?</h1>

Tails 4.25 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for December 7.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.
