[[!meta title="Tails 5.7 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Tue, 22 Nov 2022 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

<h1 id="features">New features</h1>

## Metadata Cleaner

We added *Metadata Cleaner*, a new tool to clean metadata from your files.

[[!img metadata_cleaner.png link="no" alt=""]]

When we switched to *MAT* 0.8.0 in Tails 4.0, *MAT* lost its graphical
interface and was only accessible from the contextual menu of the *Files*
browser. It became especially hard for new users of Tails to learn how to clean
their files. *Metadata Cleaner* fixes this by providing a simple and easily
discoverable graphic interface to remove metadata.

*Metadata Cleaner* works on the same file formats and is as secure as *MAT*
because *Metadata Cleaner* also uses *MAT* in the background to do the actual
cleaning.

<h1 id="changes">Changes and updates</h1>

- Update *Tor Browser* to [11.5.8](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-1158).

- Update *tor* to 0.4.7.11.

- Remove `pdf-redact-tools`, which was broken. ([[!tails_ticket 19250]])

<h1 id="fixes">Fixed problems</h1>

We fixed 2 small usability issues in *Tor Connection*:

- Explain better how to use the *Unsafe Browser* to sign in to a local network. ([[!tails_ticket 19168]])

- Remove the *(easier)* and *(safer)* comments in the first screen. ([[!tails_ticket 19166]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<h1 id="issues">Known issues</h1>

## Progress bar of Tor Connection getting stuck around 50%

When using a custom Tor `obfs4` bridge, the progress bar of *Tor Connection*
sometimes gets stuck halfway through and becomes extremely slow. ([[!tails_ticket 19173]])

To fix this, you can either:

- Close and reopen *Tor Connection* to speed up the initial connection.

- Try a different `obfs4` bridge.

  We believe that this issue should not happen with an up-to-date bridge
  running `obfs4proxy` version 0.0.12 or later.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

<h1 id="get">Get Tails 5.7</h1>

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from Tails 5.0 or later to 5.7.

  You can [[reduce the size of the download|doc/upgrade#reduce]] of future
  automatic upgrades by doing a manual upgrade to the latest version.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/windows]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]
  - [[Install from Debian or Ubuntu using the command line and GnuPG|install/expert]]

<div class="caution"><p>The Persistent Storage on the USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 5.7 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

<h1 id="next">What's coming up?</h1>

Tails 5.8 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for December 20.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.
