[[!meta title="Tails 5.4 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Tue, 24 Aug 2022 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

<h1 id="changes">Changes and updates</h1>

- Harden several aspects of our *Linux* kernel. ([[!tails_ticket 18302]],
  [[!tails_ticket 18858]], and [[!tails_ticket 18886]])

- Disable HTTPS-only mode in the *Unsafe Browser* to make it easier to
  sign in to Wi-Fi networks.

- Update *Tor Browser* to [11.5.2](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-1152).

- Update *tor* to 0.4.7.10.

- Update the *Linux* kernel to 5.10.136. This should improve the support for newer
  hardware: graphics, Wi-Fi, and so on. It will also fix an important vulnerability ([[!tails_gitweb 19081]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<h1 id="issues">Known issues</h1>

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

<h1 id="get">Get Tails 5.4</h1>

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from Tails 5.0 or later to 5.4.

  You can [[reduce the size of the download|doc/upgrade#reduce]] of future
  automatic upgrades by doing a manual upgrade to the latest version.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/windows]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]
  - [[Install from Debian or Ubuntu using the command line and GnuPG|install/expert]]

<div class="caution"><p>The Persistent Storage on the USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 5.4 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

<h1 id="next">What's coming up?</h1>

Tails 5.5 is scheduled for September 20.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.
