[[!meta title="Tails 5.12 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Wed, 19 Apr 2023 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

<h1 id="features">New features</h1>

<h2>Data deletion when deactivating a feature of the Persistent Storage</h2>

After you turn off a feature of the Persistent Storage, you can now click the
**Delete Data** button to delete the data stored for this feature.

[[!img delete-data.png link="no" alt="Persistent Storage settings with message:
Persistent Folder. The data of this feature is still saved. Delete Data?"]]

<h2>Passphrase suggestion when creating the Persistent Storage</h2>

When creating the Persistent Storage, a random and very secure passphrase is
now displayed as a suggestion:

[[!img diceware.png link="no" alt="We recommend a long passphrase of 5 to 7 random words. For example: Ella Grim Inca Brief Facts Panda"]]

This passphrase uses the diceware method to give very strong security
guarantees while being possible to memorize.

For example, a six-word passphrase like we suggest would take 3&#8239;505 years
to crack at a trillion guesses a second.

Learn more about the maths in [The Intercept: Passphrases That You Can Memorize
— But That Even the NSA Can’t
Guess](https://theintercept.com/2015/03/26/passphrases-can-memorize-attackers-cant-guess/).

<h1 id="changes">Changes and updates</h1>

- Update *Tor Browser* to [12.0.5](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-1205/).

- Update the *Linux* kernel to 6.1.20. This improves the support for newer
  hardware: graphics, Wi-Fi, and so on.

- Use a new icon for the backup utility for the Persistent Storage.

  [[!img lib/apps/backup.png link="no" alt=""]]

<h1 id="fixes">Fixed problems</h1>

We fixed several reliability issues with the Persistent Storage:

- We improved the error message when a feature of the Persistent Storage fails
  to activate from the Welcome Screen to clarify which feature is affected.

  [[!img failure-to-activate.png link="no" alt="Welcome Screen with error
  message: Failed to activate some features of the Persistent Storage:
  Persistent Folder."]]

  After starting Tails, the feature that failed to activate is marked as such
  in the Persistent Storage settings. You can try turning the feature off and
  on again or deleting its data to reset it entirely.

  [[!img activation-failed.png link="no" alt="Persistent Storage settings with
  error message: Persistent Folder. Activation failed. Try again."]]

- We made the activation of the Persistent Storage more reliable in 2 error
  cases. ([[!tails_ticket 19376]] and [[!tails_ticket 19331]])

- We added a progress indicator while turning on a new feature to clarify that
  it can take some time. ([[!tails_ticket 19291]])

- We made sure that all data that is already available in Tails is really
  copied to the USB stick when turning on a feature. ([[!tails_ticket 19368]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<h1 id="issues">Known issues</h1>

<!--

Copy the known issues from the previous version if they haven't been
solved or move them to /support/known_issues if more appropriate.

-->

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

<h1 id="get">Get Tails 5.12</h1>

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from Tails 5.0 or later to 5.12.

  You can [[reduce the size of the download|doc/upgrade#reduce]] of future
  automatic upgrades by doing a manual upgrade to the latest version.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/windows]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]
  - [[Install from Debian or Ubuntu using the command line and GnuPG|install/expert]]

<div class="caution"><p>The Persistent Storage on the USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 5.12 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]
