[[!meta title="Tails 4.25 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Tue, 07 Dec 2021 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

<h1 id="features">New features</h1>

## Backup utility

We added a utility to make a backup of the Persistent Storage to another Tails
USB stick.

[[!img backup.png link="no" alt=""]]

This utility automates the process described until now in our documentation on
making a backup of your Persistent
Storage, which used the command line.

Thanks a lot to David A. Wheeler for sending us the initial code!

It's pretty basic and we still want to do something better in [[!tails_ticket
7049]], but we didn't want to wait more because we know that backups are a big
issue for our users.

## External Hard Disk

We added a new entry called **Tails (External Hard Disk)** to the GRUB boot loader.

[[!img grub.png link="no" alt=""]]

You can use it to start Tails from an external hard disk or one of the few USB
sticks that used to return the following error when starting Tails:

    Unable to find a medium containing a live file system

<h1 id="changes">Changes and updates</h1>

- Update *Tor Browser* to [11.0.2](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-1101).

- Update *Tor* to 0.4.6.8.

- Add a shortcut to restart Tails when the *Unsafe Browser* was not enabled in
  the *Welcome Screen*.

- Add a link from the error screen of the *Tor Connection* assistant to our
  documentation on [[troubleshooting connecting to
  Tor|doc/anonymous_internet/tor/troubleshoot]].

<h1 id="fixes">Fixed problems</h1>

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

- Fix the display problems in the *Unsafe Browser*. ([[!tails_ticket
  18668]])

<h1 id="issues">Known issues</h1>

- Remove the guest additions of VirtualBox. ([[!tails_ticket 18643]])

  This breaks the support for mouse pointer integration, shared folders, and
  shared clipboard.

  The VirtualBox guest additions are badly maintained in Debian and not
  compatible anymore with some recent updates in Debian. We will add them back
  as soon as the packages in Debian work again in Tails.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

<h1 id="get">Get Tails 4.25</h1>

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are broken from Tails 4.14 and earlier.

  Follow our instructions to do an [[automatic upgrade from Tails 4.15, Tails
  4.16, Tails 4.17, or Tails 4.18|doc/upgrade/error/check#4.18]].

- Automatic upgrades are available from Tails 4.19 or later to 4.25.

  You can [[reduce the size of the download|doc/upgrade#reduce]] of future
  automatic upgrades by doing a manual upgrade to the latest version.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/windows]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]

<div class="caution"><p>The Persistent Storage on the USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 4.25 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

<h1 id="next">What's coming up?</h1>

Tails 4.26 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for January 11.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.
