[[!meta title="Tails 5.11 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Mon, 20 Mar 2023 11:36:36 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

<h1 id="features">New features</h1>

- Tails now uses the [`zram` Linux kernel
  module](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zram) to extend the capacity of the computer's memory.

  You can run more applications or use your session for longer periods of time.
  Tails will handle more load before freezing and become slow more
  progressively.

- You can record screencasts using the integrated feature of GNOME. We
  configured this feature to allow unlimited screencasts. See [[screenshot and
  screencast|doc/sensitive_documents/screenshot_and_screencast]].

<h1 id="changes">Changes and updates</h1>

- Update *Tor Browser* to [12.0.4](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-1204).

- Update *Thunderbird* to [102.9.0](https://www.thunderbird.net/en-US/thunderbird/102.9.0/releasenotes/).

- Redesigned the unlocking section of the Welcome Screen.

  [[!img doc/first_steps/welcome_screen/unlock_persistent_storage.png link="no" alt=""]]

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<h1 id="issues">Known issues</h1>

<!--

Copy the known issues from the previous version if they haven't been
solved or move them to /support/known_issues if more appropriate.

-->

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

<h1 id="get">Get Tails 5.11</h1>

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from Tails 5.0 or later to 5.11.

  You can [[reduce the size of the download|doc/upgrade#reduce]] of future
  automatic upgrades by doing a manual upgrade to the latest version.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/windows]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]
  - [[Install from Debian or Ubuntu using the command line and GnuPG|install/expert]]

<div class="caution"><p>The Persistent Storage on the USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 5.11 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

<h1 id="next">What's coming up?</h1>

Tails 5.12 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for April 18.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.
