[[!meta title="Tails 5.10 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Thu, 16 Feb 2023 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

<h1 id="changes">Changes and updates</h1>

- Update *Tor Browser* to [12.0.3](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-1203).

- Ask for confirmation when starting without unlocking the Persistent Storage.

  [[!img unlock.png link="no" alt="Do you really want to start Tails without unlocking your Persistent Storage?"]]

- Update our [[documentation on the Persistent Storage|doc/persistent_storage]].

<h1 id="fixes">Fixed problems</h1>

- Avoid crashing when the download of an upgrade is stopped and resumed. ([[!tails_ticket 18435]])

- Solve a possible privilege escalation through a symlink attack. ([[!tails_ticket 19424]])

  Dennis Brinkrolf discovered that an adversary who could already run arbitrary
  code as the amnesia user in Tails 5.9, could have escalated their privileges
  to reading arbitrary files on the system. It might have been possible to use
  this as part of an exploit chain to gain root privileges.

<h2>Persistent Storage</h2>

- Avoid opening the Persistent Storage settings each time after login.
  ([[!tails_ticket 19410]])

- Solve some cases of failure to activate the Persistent Storage by bumping the
  unlocking timeout to 120 seconds. ([[!tails_ticket 19432]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<h1 id="issues">Known issues</h1>

<!--

Copy the known issues from the previous version if they haven't been
solved or move them to /support/known_issues if more appropriate.

-->

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

<h1 id="get">Get Tails 5.10</h1>

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from Tails 5.0 or later to 5.10.

  You can [[reduce the size of the download|doc/upgrade#reduce]] of future
  automatic upgrades by doing a manual upgrade to the latest version.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/windows]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]
  - [[Install from Debian or Ubuntu using the command line and GnuPG|install/expert]]

<div class="caution"><p>The Persistent Storage on the USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 5.10 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

<h1 id="next">What's coming up?</h1>

Tails 5.11 is scheduled for March 14.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.
