[[!meta title="Tails 4.29 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Tue, 05 Apr 2022 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

<h1 id="features">New features</h1>

<h1 id="changes">Changes and updates</h1>

- Update *Tor Browser* to [11.0.10](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-11010).

- Update *Thunderbird* to [91.7.0](https://www.thunderbird.net/en-US/thunderbird/91.7.0/releasenotes/).

- Update *obfs4* to 0.0.12 to provide more discrete Tor bridges. ([[!tails_ticket 18800]])

- Update the *Linux* kernel to 5.10.103.

<h1 id="issues">Known issues</h1>

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

<h1 id="get">Get Tails 4.29</h1>

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are broken from Tails 4.18 and earlier.

  Follow our instructions to do an [[automatic upgrade from Tails 4.15, Tails
  4.16, Tails 4.17, or Tails 4.18|doc/upgrade/error/check#4.18]].

- Automatic upgrades are available from Tails 4.19 or later to 4.29.

  You can [[reduce the size of the download|doc/upgrade#reduce]] of future
  automatic upgrades by doing a manual upgrade to the latest version.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/windows]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]
  - [[Install from Debian or Ubuntu using the command line and GnuPG|install/expert]]

<div class="caution"><p>The Persistent Storage on the USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 4.29 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

<h1 id="next">What's coming up?</h1>

Tails 4.30 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for May 3.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.
