[[!meta title="Tails 5.5 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Mon, 17 Oct 2022 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

<h1 id="changes">Changes and updates</h1>

- Update *Thunderbird* to [102.3.0](https://www.thunderbird.net/en-US/thunderbird/102.3.0/releasenotes/).

  *Thunderbird* 102 is a major update with [many changes to the navigation,
folder icons, and address
book](https://blog.thunderbird.net/2022/06/thunderbird-102-released-a-serious-upgrade-to-your-communication/).

  *Thunderbird* 102 also includes important usability improvements to the
  OpenPGP feature. When composing an email, you can now see whether it will be
  encrypted or not. If encryption is impossible, a key assistant helps you
  solve key issues.

  [[!img thunderbird_102.png link="no" alt="Thunderbird composer window with encryption turned on and notification about a missing key and how to resolve the issue."]]

- Update *Tor Browser* to [11.5.4](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-1154).

- Update the *Linux* kernel to 5.10.140. This should improve the support for newer
  hardware: graphics, Wi-Fi, and so on.

- Make the `wget` command line utility use a different Tor circuit every time.

<h1 id="fixes">Fixed problems</h1>

- Always ask to configure a screen locking password when pressing Ctrl+L and no
  administration pasword was set. ([[!tails_ticket 19090]])

- Add standard fields to `/etc/os-release`. ([[!tails_ticket 12372]])

<h1 id="issues">Known issues</h1>

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

<h1 id="get">Get Tails 5.5</h1>

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from Tails 5.0 or later to 5.5.

  You can [[reduce the size of the download|doc/upgrade#reduce]] of future
  automatic upgrades by doing a manual upgrade to the latest version.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/windows]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]
  - [[Install from Debian or Ubuntu using the command line and GnuPG|install/expert]]

<div class="caution"><p>The Persistent Storage on the USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 5.5 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

<h1 id="next">What's coming up?</h1>

Tails 5.6 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for October 25.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.
