[[!meta title="Tails 5.9 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Tue, 23 Jan 2023 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

We are sorry that Tails 5.8 affected many of you so badly.

Thanks to your patience and feedback, we were able to solve most of these new
issues.

<h1 id="changes">Changes and updates</h1>

- Update *Tor Browser* to [102.7](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-1027).

- Update the *Tor* client to 0.4.7.13.

- Simplify the error screen of the *Tor Connection* assistant when connecting
  automatically.

- Improve the wording of the backup utility for the Persistent Storage.

- Remove the confirmation dialog when starting the *Unsafe Browser*.

<h1 id="fixes">Fixed problems</h1>

- Fix support for some graphics cards:

  * Update the *Linux* kernel to 6.0.12. This improves the support for newer
    hardware in general: graphics, Wi-Fi, and so on. ([[!tails_ticket 18467]])

  * Remove from the Troubleshooting Mode 2 boot options that break support for
    some graphics cards: `nomodeset` and `vga=normal`. ([[!tails_ticket 19321]])

  Please let us know if the support for your graphics cards has been fixed or
  is still broken.

- Fix starting AppImages that use the Qt toolkit like *Feather* and
  *Bitcoin-Qt*. ([[!tails_ticket 19326]])

- Fix clipboard encryption and decryption in *Kleopatra*. ([[!tails_ticket 19329]])

- Fix at least 2 cases of Persistent Storage not activating:

  * When activation takes longer ([[!tails_ticket 19347]])

  * When the Dotfiles feature includes symbolic links ([[!tails_ticket 19346]])

  Please keep reporting issues with the new Persistent Storage. We give them
  top priority!

- Fix 3 clipboard operations with *KeePassXC*:

  * Copying a passphrase to unlock a database ([[!tails_ticket 19237]])

  * Using the auto-type feature ([[!tails_ticket 19339]])

  * Clearing passwords automatically from the clipboard after 10 seconds

- Fix the display of the applications menu that was broken in some GTK3
  applications installed as Additional Software. ([[!tails_ticket 19371]])

- Localize the homepage of *Tor Browser* when started from the *Tor Connection*
  assistant. ([[!tails_ticket 19369]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<h1 id="issues">Known issues</h1>

Please keep reporting issues with the new Persistent Storage and when starting
on graphics cards that used to work with Tails.

## *Tor Browser* has no minimize and maximize buttons ([[!tails_ticket 19328]])

To work around this:

1. Right-click on the *Tor Browser* tab in the window list at the bottom of the screen.

1. Choose **Minimize** or **Maximize**.

## Welcome Screen and Tor Connection don't fit on 800×600 ([[!tails_ticket 19324]])

The top of the Welcome Screen and some button of the Tor Connection assistant
are cut out on small displays (800×600), like virtual machines.

You can press **Alt+S** to start Tails.

## Progress bar of *Tor Connection* gets stuck around 50% ([[!tails_ticket 19173]])

When using a custom Tor `obfs4` bridge, the progress bar of *Tor Connection*
sometimes gets stuck halfway through and becomes extremely slow.

To fix this, you can either:

* Close and reopen *Tor Connection* to speed up the initial connection.

* Try a different `obfs4` bridge.

  This issue only affects outdated obfs4 bridges and does not happen with
  obfs4 bridges that run version 0.0.12 or later.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

<h1 id="get">Get Tails 5.9</h1>

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from Tails 5.0 or later to 5.9.

  You can [[reduce the size of the download|doc/upgrade#reduce]] of future
  automatic upgrades by doing a manual upgrade to the latest version.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/windows]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]
  - [[Install from Debian or Ubuntu using the command line and GnuPG|install/expert]]

<div class="caution"><p>The Persistent Storage on the USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 5.9 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

<h1 id="next">What's coming up?</h1>

Tails 5.10 is scheduled for February 21.
