[[!meta title="Help Desk's standard replies"]]
[[!meta robots="noindex"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

<a id="standard-reply"></a>

Standard reply
==============

<pre>

**This is an automated reply.**

Thank you for your report.

The Tails Help Desk is a very small team with very limited resources. Still,
we read every report. But, it is impossible for us to reply to every report.
We might take days, sometimes weeks, to reply.

Because there is not much we can do about the following problems, we
usually do not reply to reports about them:

- Problems with graphics cards
- Problems with Macs
- Problems with software that we include
- Problems with software that we don't include
- Problems with Tor bridges

If you have not done so already, please check to see if your problem is
covered in our:

- End-user documentation: https://tails.net/doc/
- Frequently asked questions: https://tails.net/support/faq/
- Known issues: https://tails.net/support/known_issues/

If you are experiencing a problem that you were not experiencing in an
older version of Tails, please reply to this email and let us know the
last version of Tails in which you were not experiencing the problem.

If you have figured out a way to work around a problem, please let us
know so that we can document the workaround to help other Tails users.

We are currently receiving frequent reports about the following
problems:

- Resizing VirtualBox virtual machine window doesn't automatically
  change the screen resolution of Tails. See:
  https://tails.net/doc/advanced_topics/virtualization/virtualbox/

- The shared clipboard feature of VirtualBox is unavailable. See:
  https://tails.net/doc/advanced_topics/virtualization/virtualbox/

</pre>

Hardware support reports we can't help with
===========================================

<pre>

Dear Tails user,

Thank you for sharing your problem with us.

We are sorry that Tails does not work well on this computer.

It is difficult to investigate most hardware problems without having
access to the affected computer. Furthermore, even if we managed to
investigate each problem, unfortunately we often cannot
solve them.

If you have not yet, please read our support page:

https://tails.net/support/

We will need more information from you in 2 cases:

- **If this problem did not happen with an older version of Tails**:

  Please tell us which older version worked better.

- **If you find a way to workaround the problem**:

  Please tell us, and we will document it so that other affected users
  benefit from your findings.

Our best hope is that a future Linux driver update solves the problem.
For advanced Linux users: if you want to dig deeper on your own, you can
take it upstream after reproducing the issue on a recent Linux system
other than Tails.

Thank you for your understanding.

</pre>

Apple hardware support (Mac)
============================

See ticket here for up-to-date details:
<https://gitlab.tails.boum.org/tails/tails/-/issues/17640>.

Not enough information
======================

<pre>

Dear Tails user,

Thank you for sharing your problem with us.

Unfortunately, we can't help you at the moment because your description
doesn't include enough information.

Your problem might be already known, so please consult our known issues
page:

https://tails.net/support/known_issues/

If you don't find your issue there, please read our bug reporting
instructions:

https://tails.net/doc/first_steps/bug_reporting

We'd be grateful if you could give us a more complete description of the
problem:

INSERT SUPPORT QUESTION HERE

</pre>

Reply for users who repeatedly treat us as search engines
=========================================================

> This reply is not advisable for first time reports, only for
> users that keep asking questions already covered by our
> documentation.

<pre>

We are a very small team working on very limited human resources. A lot
of other people are asking for our help on our various support channels.
User support is an important task and is high in our priorities.

But all the time that we spend on user support is time that we cannot
dedicate to improving Tails itself. Please take this into consideration
when writing to us...

</pre>

Not a Tails-dev question
========================

<pre>

This is the mailing-list for Tails development.

For usage and support questions, please see instead:

https://tails.net/support/

Thanks!

</pre>

No OpenPGP key on the keyservers
================================

<pre>

We could not find an OpenPGP key corresponding to your email address.

Please send us a valid OpenPGP public key or publish it to the
https://keys.openpgp.org/ keyserver and notify us when you do.

Thanks!

</pre>

How to collaborate with Tails
============================

<pre>

Hi,

Thank you for your interest in contributing to Tails. As a community
project, we welcome contributions in many forms, from programming to
writing and translating.

Please see our guide to learn how you can contribute:

https://tails.net/contribute/

Cheers,

</pre>

Tails mirror is broken or scary SSL message
===========================================

<pre>

Thank you for reporting this. We have transferred these details to the
team that works on this at tails-mirrors@boum.org.

</pre>

Requesting feedback on GitLab issues
====================================

## Known issue where we need feedback

<pre>

Thank you for sharing your problems with us.

I think that you are experiencing an issue that has already been
reported:

INSERT LINK TO ISSUE

Can you confirm if your issue is the same and provide feedback to the
GitLab issue?

</pre>

## Asking a user to reproduce the issue with Debian-live

<pre>

Could you try to start a live version of Debian on your computer and see
if you can reproduce the issue?

Please read our instructions on how to reproduce bugs in Debian:

https://tails.net/doc/first_steps/bug_reporting/#debian

With your help, this issue can hopefully be fixed in a future version of
Linux and thus Tails.

Thanks in advance!

</pre>
